Ulysses
James Joyce



Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl of lathe on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed. A yellow dressinggown, ungirdled, was sustained gently behind him on the mild morning air. He held the bowl alof and intoned: 
—Introibo ad altare Dei. 
Halted, he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely: 
—Come up, Kinch! Come up, you fearful jesuit! 
Solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest. He faced about an blessed gravely thrice the tower, the surrounding land and the awakin mountains. Then, catching sight of Stephen Dedalus, he bent towards him an made rapid crosses in the air, gurgling in his throat and shaking his head. Stephen Dedalus, displeased and sleepy, leaned his arms on the top of th staircase and looked coldly at the shaking gurgling face that blessed him, equine in its length, and at the light untonsured hair, grained and hued lik pale oak. 
Buck Mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then covered the bow smartly. 
—Back to barracks! he said sternly. 
He added in a preacher’s tone: 
—For this, O dearly beloved, is the genuine Christine: body and soul an blood and ouns. Slow music, please. Shut your eyes, gents. One moment. A littl trouble about those white corpuscles. Silence, all. 
He peered sideways up and gave a long slow whistle of call, then paused awhil in rapt attention, his even white teeth glistening here and there with gol points. Chrysostomos. Two strong shrill whistles answered through the calm. 
—Thanks, old chap, he cried briskly. That will do nicely. Switch off th current, will you? 
He skipped off the gunrest and looked gravely at his watcher, gathering abou his legs the loose folds of his gown. The plump shadowed face and sullen ova jowl recalled a prelate, patron of arts in the middle ages. A pleasant smile broke quietly over his lips. 
—The mockery of it! he said gaily. Your absurd name, an ancient Greek! 
He pointed his finger in friendly jest and went over to the parapet, laughin to himself. Stephen Dedalus stepped up, followed him wearily halfway and sa down on the edge of the gunrest, watching him still as he propped his mirror o the parapet, dipped the brush in the bowl and lathered cheeks and neck. 
Buck Mulligan’s gay voice went on. 
—My name is absurd too: Malachi Mulligan, two dactyls. But it has  Hellenic ring, hasn’t it? Tripping and sunny like the buck himself. We must g to Athens. Will you come if I can get the aunt to fork out twenty quid? 
He laid the brush aside and, laughing with delight, cried: 
—Will he come? The jejune jesuit! 
Ceasing, he began to shave with care. 
—Tell me, Mulligan, Stephen said quietly. 
—Yes, my love? 
—How long is Haines going to stay in this tower? 
Buck Mulligan showed a shaven cheek over his right shoulder. 
—God, isn’t he dreadful? he said frankly. A ponderous Saxon. He think you’re not a gentleman. God, these bloody English! Bursting with money an indigestion. Because he comes from Oxford. You know, Dedalus, you have the rea Oxford manner. He can’t make you out. O, my name for you is the best: Kinch, the knife-blade. 
He shaved warily over his chin. 
—He was raving all night about a black panther, Stephen said. Where i his guncase? 
—A woful lunatic! Mulligan said. Were you in a funk? 
—I was, Stephen said with energy and growing fear. Out here in the dar with a man I don’t know raving and moaning to himself about shooting a blac panther. You saved men from drowning. I’m not a hero, however. If he stays o here I am off. 
Buck Mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade. He hopped down from hi perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily. 
—Scutter! he cried thickly. 
He came over to the gunrest and, thrusting a hand into Stephen’s upper pocket, said: 
—Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my razor. 
Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner a dirt crumpled handkerchief. Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly. Then, gazin over the handkerchief, he said: 
—The bard’s noserag! A new art colour for our Irish poets: snotgreen. Yo can almost taste it, can’t you? 
He mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over Dublin bay, his fair oakpal hair stirring slightly. 
—God! he said quietly. Isn’t the sea what Algy calls it: a great swee mother? The snotgreen sea. The scrotumtightening sea. Epi oinopa ponton. Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks! I must teach you. You must read them in the original. Thalatta! Thalatta! She is our great sweet mother. Come and look. 
Stephen stood up and went over to the parapet. Leaning on it he looked down o the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouth of Kingstown. 
—Our mighty mother! Buck Mulligan said. 
He turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to Stephen’s face. 
—The aunt thinks you killed your mother, he said. That’s why she won’ let me have anything to do with you. 
—Someone killed her, Stephen said gloomily. 
—You could have knelt down, damn it, Kinch, when your dying mother aske you, Buck Mulligan said. I’m hyperborean as much as you. But to think of you mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down and pray for her. And yo refused. There is something sinister in you.... 
He broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek. A tolerant smil curled his lips. 
—But a lovely mummer! he murmured to himself. Kinch, the loveliest mumme of them all! 
He shaved evenly and with care, in silence, seriously. 
Stephen, an elbow rested on the jagged granite, leaned his palm against hi brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny black coat-sleeve. Pain, tha was not yet the pain of love, fretted his heart. Silently, in a dream she ha come to him after her death, her wasted body within its loose brow graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood, her breath, that had ben upon him, mute, reproachful, a faint odour of wetted ashes. Across th threadbare cuffedge he saw the sea hailed as a great sweet mother by th wellfed voice beside him. The ring of bay and skyline held a dull green mass o liquid. A bowl of white china had stood beside her deathbed holding the gree sluggish bile which she had torn up from her rotting liver by fits of lou groaning vomiting. 
Buck Mulligan wiped again his razorblade. 
—Ah, poor dogsbody! he said in a kind voice. I must give you a shirt an a few noserags. How are the secondhand breeks? 
—They fit well enough, Stephen answered. 
Buck Mulligan attacked the hollow beneath his underlip. 
—The mockery of it, he said contentedly. Secondleg they should be. Go knows what poxy bowsy left them off. I have a lovely pair with a hair stripe, grey. You’ll look spiffing in them. I’m not joking, Kinch. You look damn wel when you’re dressed. 
—Thanks, Stephen said. I can’t wear them if they are grey. 
—He can’t wear them, Buck Mulligan told his face in the mirror. Etiquett is etiquette. He kills his mother but he can’t wear grey trousers. 
He folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt the smoot skin. 
Stephen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with its smokeblu mobile eyes. 
—That fellow I was with in the Ship last night, said Buck Mulligan, say you have g. p. i. He’s up in Dottyville with Connolly Norman. General paralysi of the insane! 
He swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings abroad i sunlight now radiant on the sea. His curling shaven lips laughed and the edge of his white glittering teeth. Laughter seized all his strong wellknit trunk. 
—Look at yourself, he said, you dreadful bard! 
Stephen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him, cleft by  crooked crack. Hair on end. As he and others see me. Who chose this face fo me? This dogsbody to rid of vermin. It asks me too. 
—I pinched it out of the skivvy’s room, Buck Mulligan said. It does he all right. The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for Malachi. Lead hi not into temptation. And her name is Ursula. 
Laughing again, he brought the mirror away from Stephen’s peering eyes. 
—The rage of Caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror, he said. I Wilde were only alive to see you! 
Drawing back and pointing, Stephen said with bitterness: 
—It is a symbol of Irish art. The cracked lookingglass of a servant. 
Buck Mulligan suddenly linked his arm in Stephen’s and walked with him roun the tower, his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where he had thrus them. 
—It’s not fair to tease you like that, Kinch, is it? he said kindly. Go knows you have more spirit than any of them. 
Parried again. He fears the lancet of my art as I fear that of his. The col steel pen. 
—Cracked lookingglass of a servant! Tell that to the oxy chap downstair and touch him for a guinea. He’s stinking with money and thinks you’re not  gentleman. His old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to Zulus or some blood swindle or other. God, Kinch, if you and I could only work together we might d something for the island. Hellenise it. 
Cranly’s arm. His arm. 
—And to think of your having to beg from these swine. I’m the only on that knows what you are. Why don’t you trust me more? What have you up you nose against me? Is it Haines? If he makes any noise here I’ll bring dow Seymour and we’ll give him a ragging worse than they gave Clive Kempthorpe. 
Young shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpe’s rooms. Palefaces: the hold their ribs with laughter, one clasping another. O, I shall expire! Brea the news to her gently, Aubrey! I shall die! With slit ribbons of his shir whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the table, with trousers down a heels, chased by Ades of Magdalen with the tailor’s shears. A scared calf’ face gilded with marmalade. I don’t want to be debagged! Don’t you play th giddy ox with me! 
Shouts from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle. A dea gardener, aproned, masked with Matthew Arnold’s face, pushes his mower on th sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes of grasshalms. 
To ourselves... new paganism... omphalos. 
—Let him stay, Stephen said. There’s nothing wrong with him except a night. 
—Then what is it? Buck Mulligan asked impatiently. Cough it up. I’m quit frank with you. What have you against me now? 
They halted, looking towards the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay on the wate like the snout of a sleeping whale. Stephen freed his arm quietly. 
—Do you wish me to tell you? he asked. 
—Yes, what is it? Buck Mulligan answered. I don’t remember anything. 
He looked in Stephen’s face as he spoke. A light wind passed his brow, fannin softly his fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points of anxiety in hi eyes. 
Stephen, depressed by his own voice, said: 
—Do you remember the first day I went to your house after my mother’ death? 
Buck Mulligan frowned quickly and said: 
—What? Where? I can’t remember anything. I remember only ideas an sensations. Why? What happened in the name of God? 
—You were making tea, Stephen said, and went across the landing to ge more hot water. Your mother and some visitor came out of the drawingroom. Sh asked you who was in your room. 
—Yes? Buck Mulligan said. What did I say? I forget. 
—You said, Stephen answered, O, it’s only Dedalus whose mother i beastly dead. 
A flush which made him seem younger and more engaging rose to Buck Mulligan’ cheek. 
—Did I say that? he asked. Well? What harm is that? 
He shook his constraint from him nervously. 
—And what is death, he asked, your mother’s or yours or my own? You sa only your mother die. I see them pop off every day in the Mater and Richmon and cut up into tripes in the dissectingroom. It’s a beastly thing and nothin else. It simply doesn’t matter. You wouldn’t kneel down to pray for your mothe on her deathbed when she asked you. Why? Because you have the cursed jesui strain in you, only it’s injected the wrong way. To me it’s all a mockery an beastly. Her cerebral lobes are not functioning. She calls the doctor sir Pete Teazle and picks buttercups off the quilt. Humour her till it’s over. Yo crossed her last wish in death and yet you sulk with me because I don’t whing like some hired mute from Lalouette’s. Absurd! I suppose I did say it. I didn’ mean to offend the memory of your mother. 
He had spoken himself into boldness. Stephen, shielding the gaping wounds whic the words had left in his heart, said very coldly: 
—I am not thinking of the offence to my mother. 
—Of what then? Buck Mulligan asked. 
—Of the offence to me, Stephen answered. 
Buck Mulligan swung round on his heel. 
—O, an impossible person! he exclaimed. 
He walked off quickly round the parapet. Stephen stood at his post, gazing ove the calm sea towards the headland. Sea and headland now grew dim. Pulses wer beating in his eyes, veiling their sight, and he felt the fever of his cheeks. 
A voice within the tower called loudly: 
—Are you up there, Mulligan? 
—I’m coming, Buck Mulligan answered. 
He turned towards Stephen and said: 
—Look at the sea. What does it care about offences? Chuck Loyola, Kinch, and come on down. The Sassenach wants his morning rashers. 
His head halted again for a moment at the top of the staircase, level with th roof: 
—Don’t mope over it all day, he said. I’m inconsequent. Give up the mood brooding. 
His head vanished but the drone of his descending voice boomed out of th stairhead: 
And no more turn aside and broo Upon love’s bitter myster For Fergus rules the brazen cars. 
Woodshadows floated silently by through the morning peace from the stairhea seaward where he gazed. Inshore and farther out the mirror of water whitened, spurned by lightshod hurrying feet. White breast of the dim sea. The twinin stresses, two by two. A hand plucking the harpstrings, merging their twinin chords. Wavewhite wedded words shimmering on the dim tide. 
A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly, shadowing the bay in deepe green. It lay beneath him, a bowl of bitter waters. Fergus’ song: I sang i alone in the house, holding down the long dark chords. Her door was open: sh wanted to hear my music. Silent with awe and pity I went to her bedside. Sh was crying in her wretched bed. For those words, Stephen: love’s bitte mystery. 
Where now? 
Her secrets: old featherfans, tasselled dancecards, powdered with musk, a gau of amber beads in her locked drawer. A birdcage hung in the sunny window of he house when she was a girl. She heard old Royce sing in the pantomime of Turk the Terrible and laughed with others when he sang: 
I am the bo That can enjo Invisibility. 
Phantasmal mirth, folded away: muskperfumed. 
And no more turn aside and brood. 
Folded away in the memory of nature with her toys. Memories beset his broodin brain. Her glass of water from the kitchen tap when she had approached th sacrament. A cored apple, filled with brown sugar, roasting for her at the ho on a dark autumn evening. Her shapely fingernails reddened by the blood o squashed lice from the children’s shirts. 
In a dream, silently, she had come to him, her wasted body within its loos graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood, her breath, bent over hi with mute secret words, a faint odour of wetted ashes. 
Her glazing eyes, staring out of death, to shake and bend my soul. On me alone. The ghostcandle to light her agony. Ghostly light on the tortured face. He hoarse loud breath rattling in horror, while all prayed on their knees. He eyes on me to strike me down. Liliata rutilantium te confessorum turm circumdet: iubilantium te virginum chorus excipiat. 
Ghoul! Chewer of corpses! 
No, mother! Let me be and let me live. 
—Kinch ahoy! 
Buck Mulligan’s voice sang from within the tower. It came nearer up th staircase, calling again. Stephen, still trembling at his soul’s cry, hear warm running sunlight and in the air behind him friendly words. 
—Dedalus, come down, like a good mosey. Breakfast is ready. Haines i apologising for waking us last night. It’s all right. 
—I’m coming, Stephen said, turning. 
—Do, for Jesus’ sake, Buck Mulligan said. For my sake and for all ou sakes. 
His head disappeared and reappeared. 
—I told him your symbol of Irish art. He says it’s very clever. Touch hi for a quid, will you? A guinea, I mean. 
—I get paid this morning, Stephen said. 
—The school kip? Buck Mulligan said. How much? Four quid? Lend us one. 
—If you want it, Stephen said. 
—Four shining sovereigns, Buck Mulligan cried with delight. We’ll have  glorious drunk to astonish the druidy druids. Four omnipotent sovereigns. 
He flung up his hands and tramped down the stone stairs, singing out of tun with a Cockney accent: 
O, won’t we have a merry time, Drinking whisky, beer and wine!On coronation, Coronation day!O, won’t we have a merry tim On coronation day! 
Warm sunshine merrying over the sea. The nickel shavingbowl shone, forgotten, on the parapet. Why should I bring it down? Or leave it there all day, forgotten friendship? 
He went over to it, held it in his hands awhile, feeling its coolness, smellin the clammy slaver of the lather in which the brush was stuck. So I carried th boat of incense then at Clongowes. I am another now and yet the same. A servan too. A server of a servant. 
In the gloomy domed livingroom of the tower Buck Mulligan’s gowned form move briskly to and fro about the hearth, hiding and revealing its yellow glow. Tw shafts of soft daylight fell across the flagged floor from the high barbacans:and at the meeting of their rays a cloud of coalsmoke and fumes of fried greas floated, turning. 
—We’ll be choked, Buck Mulligan said. Haines, open that door, will you? 
Stephen laid the shavingbowl on the locker. A tall figure rose from the hammoc where it had been sitting, went to the doorway and pulled open the inner doors. 
—Have you the key? a voice asked. 
—Dedalus has it, Buck Mulligan said. Janey Mack, I’m choked! 
He howled, without looking up from the fire: 
—Kinch! 
—It’s in the lock, Stephen said, coming forward. 
The key scraped round harshly twice and, when the heavy door had been set ajar, welcome light and bright air entered. Haines stood at the doorway, looking out. Stephen haled his upended valise to the table and sat down to wait. Buc Mulligan tossed the fry on to the dish beside him. Then he carried the dish an a large teapot over to the table, set them down heavily and sighed with relief. 
—I’m melting, he said, as the candle remarked when... But, hush! Not  word more on that subject! Kinch, wake up! Bread, butter, honey. Haines, com in. The grub is ready. Bless us, O Lord, and these thy gifts. Where’s th sugar? O, jay, there’s no milk. 
Stephen fetched the loaf and the pot of honey and the buttercooler from th locker. Buck Mulligan sat down in a sudden pet. 
—What sort of a kip is this? he said. I told her to come after eight. 
—We can drink it black, Stephen said thirstily. There’s a lemon in th locker. 
—O, damn you and your Paris fads! Buck Mulligan said. I want Sandycov milk. 
Haines came in from the doorway and said quietly: 
—That woman is coming up with the milk. 
—The blessings of God on you! Buck Mulligan cried, jumping up from hi chair. Sit down. Pour out the tea there. The sugar is in the bag. Here, I can’ go fumbling at the damned eggs. 
He hacked through the fry on the dish and slapped it out on three plates, saying: 
—In nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti. 
Haines sat down to pour out the tea. 
—I’m giving you two lumps each, he said. But, I say, Mulligan, you d make strong tea, don’t you? 
Buck Mulligan, hewing thick slices from the loaf, said in an old woman’ wheedling voice: 
—When I makes tea I makes tea, as old mother Grogan said. And when  makes water I makes water. 
—By Jove, it is tea, Haines said. 
Buck Mulligan went on hewing and wheedling: 
—So I do, Mrs Cahill, says she. Begob, ma’am, says Mr Cahill, God send you don’t make them in the one pot. 
He lunged towards his messmates in turn a thick slice of bread, impaled on hi knife. 
—That’s folk, he said very earnestly, for your book, Haines. Five line of text and ten pages of notes about the folk and the fishgods of Dundrum. Printed by the weird sisters in the year of the big wind. 
He turned to Stephen and asked in a fine puzzled voice, lifting his brows: 
—Can you recall, brother, is mother Grogan’s tea and water pot spoken o in the Mabinogion or is it in the Upanishads? 
—I doubt it, said Stephen gravely. 
—Do you now? Buck Mulligan said in the same tone. Your reasons, pray? 
—I fancy, Stephen said as he ate, it did not exist in or out of th Mabinogion. Mother Grogan was, one imagines, a kinswoman of Mary Ann. 
Buck Mulligan’s face smiled with delight. 
—Charming! he said in a finical sweet voice, showing his white teeth an blinking his eyes pleasantly. Do you think she was? Quite charming! 
Then, suddenly overclouding all his features, he growled in a hoarsened raspin voice as he hewed again vigorously at the loaf: 
—For old Mary An She doesn’t care a damn. But, hising up her petticoats... 
He crammed his mouth with fry and munched and droned. 
The doorway was darkened by an entering form. 
—The milk, sir! 
—Come in, ma’am, Mulligan said. Kinch, get the jug. 
An old woman came forward and stood by Stephen’s elbow. 
—That’s a lovely morning, sir, she said. Glory be to God. 
—To whom? Mulligan said, glancing at her. Ah, to be sure! 
Stephen reached back and took the milkjug from the locker. 
—The islanders, Mulligan said to Haines casually, speak frequently of th collector of prepuces. 
—How much, sir? asked the old woman. 
—A quart, Stephen said. 
He watched her pour into the measure and thence into the jug rich white milk, not hers. Old shrunken paps. She poured again a measureful and a tilly. Old an secret she had entered from a morning world, maybe a messenger. She praised th goodness of the milk, pouring it out. Crouching by a patient cow at daybreak i the lush field, a witch on her toadstool, her wrinkled fingers quick at th squirting dugs. They lowed about her whom they knew, dewsilky cattle. Silk o the kine and poor old woman, names given her in old times. A wandering crone, lowly form of an immortal serving her conqueror and her gay betrayer, thei common cuckquean, a messenger from the secret morning. To serve or to upbraid, whether he could not tell: but scorned to beg her favour. 
—It is indeed, ma’am, Buck Mulligan said, pouring milk into their cups. 
—Taste it, sir, she said. 
He drank at her bidding. 
—If we could live on good food like that, he said to her somewhat loudly, we wouldn’t have the country full of rotten teeth and rotten guts. Living in  bogswamp, eating cheap food and the streets paved with dust, horsedung an consumptives’ spits. 
—Are you a medical student, sir? the old woman asked. 
—I am, ma’am, Buck Mulligan answered. 
—Look at that now, she said. 
Stephen listened in scornful silence. She bows her old head to a voice tha speaks to her loudly, her bonesetter, her medicineman: me she slights. To th voice that will shrive and oil for the grave all there is of her but he woman’s unclean loins, of man’s flesh made not in God’s likeness, the serpent’ prey. And to the loud voice that now bids her be silent with wondering unstead eyes. 
—Do you understand what he says? Stephen asked her. 
—Is it French you are talking, sir? the old woman said to Haines. 
Haines spoke to her again a longer speech, confidently. 
—Irish, Buck Mulligan said. Is there Gaelic on you? 
—I thought it was Irish, she said, by the sound of it. Are you from th west, sir? 
—I am an Englishman, Haines answered. 
—He’s English, Buck Mulligan said, and he thinks we ought to speak Iris in Ireland. 
—Sure we ought to, the old woman said, and I’m ashamed I don’t speak th language myself. I’m told it’s a grand language by them that knows. 
—Grand is no name for it, said Buck Mulligan. Wonderful entirely. Fill u out some more tea, Kinch. Would you like a cup, ma’am? 
—No, thank you, sir, the old woman said, slipping the ring of the milkca on her forearm and about to go. 
Haines said to her: 
—Have you your bill? We had better pay her, Mulligan, hadn’t we? 
Stephen filled again the three cups. 
—Bill, sir? she said, halting. Well, it’s seven mornings a pint a twopence is seven twos is a shilling and twopence over and these three morning a quart at fourpence is three quarts is a shilling. That’s a shilling and on and two is two and two, sir. 
Buck Mulligan sighed and, having filled his mouth with a crust thickly buttere on both sides, stretched forth his legs and began to search his trouse pockets. 
—Pay up and look pleasant, Haines said to him, smiling. 
Stephen filled a third cup, a spoonful of tea colouring faintly the thick ric milk. Buck Mulligan brought up a florin, twisted it round in his fingers an cried: 
—A miracle! 
He passed it along the table towards the old woman, saying: 
—Ask nothing more of me, sweet. All I can give you I give. 
Stephen laid the coin in her uneager hand. 
—We’ll owe twopence, he said. 
—Time enough, sir, she said, taking the coin. Time enough. Good morning, sir. 
She curtseyed and went out, followed by Buck Mulligan’s tender chant: 
—Heart of my heart, were it more, More would be laid at your feet. 
He turned to Stephen and said: 
—Seriously, Dedalus. I’m stony. Hurry out to your school kip and bring u back some money. Today the bards must drink and junket. Ireland expects tha every man this day will do his duty. 
—That reminds me, Haines said, rising, that I have to visit your nationa library today. 
—Our swim first, Buck Mulligan said. 
He turned to Stephen and asked blandly: 
—Is this the day for your monthly wash, Kinch? 
Then he said to Haines: 
—The unclean bard makes a point of washing once a month. 
—All Ireland is washed by the gulfstream, Stephen said as he let hone trickle over a slice of the loaf. 
Haines from the corner where he was knotting easily a scarf about the loos collar of his tennis shirt spoke: 
—I intend to make a collection of your sayings if you will let me. 
Speaking to me. They wash and tub and scrub. Agenbite of inwit. Conscience. Ye here’s a spot. 
—That one about the cracked lookingglass of a servant being the symbol o Irish art is deuced good. 
Buck Mulligan kicked Stephen’s foot under the table and said with warmth o tone: 
—Wait till you hear him on Hamlet, Haines. 
—Well, I mean it, Haines said, still speaking to Stephen. I was jus thinking of it when that poor old creature came in. 
—Would I make any money by it? Stephen asked. 
Haines laughed and, as he took his soft grey hat from the holdfast of th hammock, said: 
—I don’t know, I’m sure. 
He strolled out to the doorway. Buck Mulligan bent across to Stephen and sai with coarse vigour: 
—You put your hoof in it now. What did you say that for? 
—Well? Stephen said. The problem is to get money. From whom? From th milkwoman or from him. It’s a toss up, I think. 
—I blow him out about you, Buck Mulligan said, and then you come alon with your lousy leer and your gloomy jesuit jibes. 
—I see little hope, Stephen said, from her or from him. 
Buck Mulligan sighed tragically and laid his hand on Stephen’s arm. 
—From me, Kinch, he said. 
In a suddenly changed tone he added: 
—To tell you the God’s truth I think you’re right. Damn all else they ar good for. Why don’t you play them as I do? To hell with them all. Let us ge out of the kip. 
He stood up, gravely ungirdled and disrobed himself of his gown, sayin resignedly: 
—Mulligan is stripped of his garments. 
He emptied his pockets on to the table. 
—There’s your snotrag, he said. 
And putting on his stiff collar and rebellious tie he spoke to them, chidin them, and to his dangling watchchain. His hands plunged and rummaged in hi trunk while he called for a clean handkerchief. God, we’ll simply have to dres the character. I want puce gloves and green boots. Contradiction. Do  contradict myself? Very well then, I contradict myself. Mercurial Malachi.  limp black missile flew out of his talking hands. 
—And there’s your Latin quarter hat, he said. 
Stephen picked it up and put it on. Haines called to them from the doorway: 
—Are you coming, you fellows? 
—I’m ready, Buck Mulligan answered, going towards the door. Come out, Kinch. You have eaten all we left, I suppose. Resigned he passed out with grav words and gait, saying, wellnigh with sorrow: 
—And going forth he met Butterly. 
Stephen, taking his ashplant from its leaningplace, followed them out and, a they went down the ladder, pulled to the slow iron door and locked it. He pu the huge key in his inner pocket. 
At the foot of the ladder Buck Mulligan asked: 
—Did you bring the key? 
—I have it, Stephen said, preceding them. 
He walked on. Behind him he heard Buck Mulligan club with his heavy bathtowe the leader shoots of ferns or grasses. 
—Down, sir! How dare you, sir! 
Haines asked: 
—Do you pay rent for this tower? 
—Twelve quid, Buck Mulligan said. 
—To the secretary of state for war, Stephen added over his shoulder. 
They halted while Haines surveyed the tower and said at last: 
—Rather bleak in wintertime, I should say. Martello you call it? 
—Billy Pitt had them built, Buck Mulligan said, when the French were o the sea. But ours is the omphalos. 
—What is your idea of Hamlet? Haines asked Stephen. 
—No, no, Buck Mulligan shouted in pain. I’m not equal to Thomas Aquina and the fiftyfive reasons he has made out to prop it up. Wait till I have a fe pints in me first. 
He turned to Stephen, saying, as he pulled down neatly the peaks of hi primrose waistcoat: 
—You couldn’t manage it under three pints, Kinch, could you? 
—It has waited so long, Stephen said listlessly, it can wait longer. 
—You pique my curiosity, Haines said amiably. Is it some paradox? 
—Pooh! Buck Mulligan said. We have grown out of Wilde and paradoxes. It’ quite simple. He proves by algebra that Hamlet’s grandson is Shakespeare’ grandfather and that he himself is the ghost of his own father. 
—What? Haines said, beginning to point at Stephen. He himself? 
Buck Mulligan slung his towel stolewise round his neck and, bending in loos laughter, said to Stephen’s ear: 
—O, shade of Kinch the elder! Japhet in search of a father! 
—We’re always tired in the morning, Stephen said to Haines. And it i rather long to tell. 
Buck Mulligan, walking forward again, raised his hands. 
—The sacred pint alone can unbind the tongue of Dedalus, he said. 
—I mean to say, Haines explained to Stephen as they followed, this towe and these cliffs here remind me somehow of Elsinore. That beetles o’er hi base into the sea, isn’t it? 
Buck Mulligan turned suddenly for an instant towards Stephen but did not speak. In the bright silent instant Stephen saw his own image in cheap dusty mournin between their gay attires. 
—It’s a wonderful tale, Haines said, bringing them to halt again. 
Eyes, pale as the sea the wind had freshened, paler, firm and prudent. Th seas’ ruler, he gazed southward over the bay, empty save for the smokeplume o the mailboat vague on the bright skyline and a sail tacking by the Muglins. 
—I read a theological interpretation of it somewhere, he said bemused. The Father and the Son idea. The Son striving to be atoned with the Father. 
Buck Mulligan at once put on a blithe broadly smiling face. He looked at them, his wellshaped mouth open happily, his eyes, from which he had suddenl withdrawn all shrewd sense, blinking with mad gaiety. He moved a doll’s head t and fro, the brims of his Panama hat quivering, and began to chant in a quie happy foolish voice: 
—I’m the queerest young fellow that ever you heard. My mother’s a jew, my father’s a bird. With Joseph the joiner I cannot agree. So here’s to disciples and Calvary. 
He held up a forefinger of warning. 
—If anyone thinks that I amn’t divin He’ll get no free drinks when I’m making the win But have to drink water and wish it were plai That I make when the wine becomes water again. 
He tugged swiftly at Stephen’s ashplant in farewell and, running forward to  brow of the cliff, fluttered his hands at his sides like fins or wings of on about to rise in the air, and chanted: 
—Goodbye, now, goodbye! Write down all I sai And tell Tom, Dick and Harry I rose from the dead. What’s bred in the bone cannot fail me to fl And Olivet’s breezy... Goodbye, now, goodbye! 
He capered before them down towards the fortyfoot hole, fluttering his winglik hands, leaping nimbly, Mercury’s hat quivering in the fresh wind that bore bac to them his brief birdsweet cries. 
Haines, who had been laughing guardedly, walked on beside Stephen and said: 
—We oughtn’t to laugh, I suppose. He’s rather blasphemous. I’m not  believer myself, that is to say. Still his gaiety takes the harm out of i somehow, doesn’t it? What did he call it? Joseph the Joiner? 
—The ballad of joking Jesus, Stephen answered. 
—O, Haines said, you have heard it before? 
—Three times a day, after meals, Stephen said drily. 
—You’re not a believer, are you? Haines asked. I mean, a believer in th narrow sense of the word. Creation from nothing and miracles and a persona God. 
—There’s only one sense of the word, it seems to me, Stephen said. 
Haines stopped to take out a smooth silver case in which twinkled a gree stone. He sprang it open with his thumb and offered it. 
—Thank you, Stephen said, taking a cigarette. 
Haines helped himself and snapped the case to. He put it back in his sidepocke and took from his waistcoatpocket a nickel tinderbox, sprang it open too, and, having lit his cigarette, held the flaming spunk towards Stephen in the shel of his hands. 
—Yes, of course, he said, as they went on again. Either you believe o you don’t, isn’t it? Personally I couldn’t stomach that idea of a personal God. You don’t stand for that, I suppose? 
—You behold in me, Stephen said with grim displeasure, a horrible exampl of free thought. 
He walked on, waiting to be spoken to, trailing his ashplant by his side. It ferrule followed lightly on the path, squealing at his heels. My familiar, after me, calling, Steeeeeeeeeeeephen! A wavering line along the path. The will walk on it tonight, coming here in the dark. He wants that key. It i mine. I paid the rent. Now I eat his salt bread. Give him the key too. All. H will ask for it. That was in his eyes. 
—After all, Haines began... 
Stephen turned and saw that the cold gaze which had measured him was not al unkind. 
—After all, I should think you are able to free yourself. You are you own master, it seems to me. 
—I am a servant of two masters, Stephen said, an English and an Italian. 
—Italian? Haines said. 
A crazy queen, old and jealous. Kneel down before me. 
—And a third, Stephen said, there is who wants me for odd jobs. 
—Italian? Haines said again. What do you mean? 
—The imperial British state, Stephen answered, his colour rising, and th holy Roman catholic and apostolic church. 
Haines detached from his underlip some fibres of tobacco before he spoke. 
—I can quite understand that, he said calmly. An Irishman must think lik that, I daresay. We feel in England that we have treated you rather unfairly. It seems history is to blame. 
The proud potent titles clanged over Stephen’s memory the triumph of thei brazen bells: et unam sanctam catholicam et apostolicam ecclesiam: th slow growth and change of rite and dogma like his own rare thoughts,  chemistry of stars. Symbol of the apostles in the mass for pope Marcellus, th voices blended, singing alone loud in affirmation: and behind their chant th vigilant angel of the church militant disarmed and menaced her heresiarchs.  horde of heresies fleeing with mitres awry: Photius and the brood of mockers o whom Mulligan was one, and Arius, warring his life long upon th consubstantiality of the Son with the Father, and Valentine, spurning Christ’ terrene body, and the subtle African heresiarch Sabellius who held that th Father was Himself His own Son. Words Mulligan had spoken a moment since i mockery to the stranger. Idle mockery. The void awaits surely all them tha weave the wind: a menace, a disarming and a worsting from those embattle angels of the church, Michael’s host, who defend her ever in the hour o conflict with their lances and their shields. 
Hear, hear! Prolonged applause. Zut! Nom de Dieu! 
—Of course I’m a Britisher, Haines’s voice said, and I feel as one.  don’t want to see my country fall into the hands of German jews either. That’ our national problem, I’m afraid, just now. 
Two men stood at the verge of the cliff, watching: businessman, boatman. 
—She’s making for Bullock harbour. 
The boatman nodded towards the north of the bay with some disdain. 
—There’s five fathoms out there, he said. It’ll be swept up that way whe the tide comes in about one. It’s nine days today. 
The man that was drowned. A sail veering about the blank bay waiting for  swollen bundle to bob up, roll over to the sun a puffy face, saltwhite. Here  am. 
They followed the winding path down to the creek. Buck Mulligan stood on  stone, in shirtsleeves, his unclipped tie rippling over his shoulder. A youn man clinging to a spur of rock near him, moved slowly frogwise his green leg in the deep jelly of the water. 
—Is the brother with you, Malachi? 
—Down in Westmeath. With the Bannons. 
—Still there? I got a card from Bannon. Says he found a sweet young thin down there. Photo girl he calls her. 
—Snapshot, eh? Brief exposure. 
Buck Mulligan sat down to unlace his boots. An elderly man shot up near th spur of rock a blowing red face. He scrambled up by the stones, wate glistening on his pate and on its garland of grey hair, water rilling over hi chest and paunch and spilling jets out of his black sagging loincloth. 
Buck Mulligan made way for him to scramble past and, glancing at Haines an Stephen, crossed himself piously with his thumbnail at brow and lips an breastbone. 
—Seymour’s back in town, the young man said, grasping again his spur o rock. Chucked medicine and going in for the army. 
—Ah, go to God! Buck Mulligan said. 
—Going over next week to stew. You know that red Carlisle girl, Lily? 
—Yes. 
—Spooning with him last night on the pier. The father is rotto wit money. 
—Is she up the pole? 
—Better ask Seymour that. 
—Seymour a bleeding officer! Buck Mulligan said. 
He nodded to himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up, saying tritely: 
—Redheaded women buck like goats. 
He broke off in alarm, feeling his side under his flapping shirt. 
—My twelfth rib is gone, he cried. I’m the Übermensch. Toothles Kinch and I, the supermen. 
He struggled out of his shirt and flung it behind him to where his clothes lay. 
—Are you going in here, Malachi? 
—Yes. Make room in the bed. 
The young man shoved himself backward through the water and reached the middl of the creek in two long clean strokes. Haines sat down on a stone, smoking. 
—Are you not coming in? Buck Mulligan asked. 
—Later on, Haines said. Not on my breakfast. 
Stephen turned away. 
—I’m going, Mulligan, he said. 
—Give us that key, Kinch, Buck Mulligan said, to keep my chemise flat. 
Stephen handed him the key. Buck Mulligan laid it across his heaped clothes. 
—And twopence, he said, for a pint. Throw it there. 
Stephen threw two pennies on the soft heap. Dressing, undressing. Buck Mulliga erect, with joined hands before him, said solemnly: 
—He who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the Lord. Thus spak Zarathustra. 
His plump body plunged. 
—We’ll see you again, Haines said, turning as Stephen walked up the pat and smiling at wild Irish. 
Horn of a bull, hoof of a horse, smile of a Saxon. 
—The Ship, Buck Mulligan cried. Half twelve. 
—Good, Stephen said. 
He walked along the upwardcurving path. 
Liliata rutilantium. Turma circumdet. Iubilantium te virginum. 
The priest’s grey nimbus in a niche where he dressed discreetly. I will no sleep here tonight. Home also I cannot go. 
A voice, sweettoned and sustained, called to him from the sea. Turning th curve he waved his hand. It called again. A sleek brown head, a seal’s, far ou on the water, round. 
Usurper. 



 
\n—You, Cochrane, what city sent for him? 
—Tarentum, sir. 
—Very good. Well? 
—There was a battle, sir. 
—Very good. Where? 
The boy’s blank face asked the blank window. 
Fabled by the daughters of memory. And yet it was in some way if not as memor fabled it. A phrase, then, of impatience, thud of Blake’s wings of excess.  hear the ruin of all space, shattered glass and toppling masonry, and time on livid final flame. What’s left us then? 
—I forget the place, sir. 279 B. C. 
—Asculum, Stephen said, glancing at the name and date in the gorescarre book. 
—Yes, sir. And he said: Another victory like that and we are don for. 
That phrase the world had remembered. A dull ease of the mind. From a hil above a corpsestrewn plain a general speaking to his officers, leaned upon hi spear. Any general to any officers. They lend ear. 
—You, Armstrong, Stephen said. What was the end of Pyrrhus? 
—End of Pyrrhus, sir? 
—I know, sir. Ask me, sir, Comyn said. 
—Wait. You, Armstrong. Do you know anything about Pyrrhus? 
A bag of figrolls lay snugly in Armstrong’s satchel. He curled them between hi palms at whiles and swallowed them softly. Crumbs adhered to the tissue of hi lips. A sweetened boy’s breath. Welloff people, proud that their eldest son wa in the navy. Vico Road, Dalkey. 
—Pyrrhus, sir? Pyrrhus, a pier. 
All laughed. Mirthless high malicious laughter. Armstrong looked round at hi classmates, silly glee in profile. In a moment they will laugh more loudly, aware of my lack of rule and of the fees their papas pay. 
—Tell me now, Stephen said, poking the boy’s shoulder with the book, wha is a pier. 
—A pier, sir, Armstrong said. A thing out in the water. A kind of  bridge. Kingstown pier, sir. 
Some laughed again: mirthless but with meaning. Two in the back benc whispered. Yes. They knew: had never learned nor ever been innocent. All. Wit envy he watched their faces: Edith, Ethel, Gerty, Lily. Their likes: thei breaths, too, sweetened with tea and jam, their bracelets tittering in th struggle. 
—Kingstown pier, Stephen said. Yes, a disappointed bridge. 
The words troubled their gaze. 
—How, sir? Comyn asked. A bridge is across a river. 
For Haines’s chapbook. No-one here to hear. Tonight deftly amid wild drink an talk, to pierce the polished mail of his mind. What then? A jester at the cour of his master, indulged and disesteemed, winning a clement master’s praise. Wh had they chosen all that part? Not wholly for the smooth caress. For them to history was a tale like any other too often heard, their land a pawnshop. 
Had Pyrrhus not fallen by a beldam’s hand in Argos or Julius Caesar not bee knifed to death. They are not to be thought away. Time has branded them an fettered they are lodged in the room of the infinite possibilities they hav ousted. But can those have been possible seeing that they never were? Or wa that only possible which came to pass? Weave, weaver of the wind. 
—Tell us a story, sir. 
—O, do, sir. A ghoststory. 
—Where do you begin in this? Stephen asked, opening another book. 
—Weep no more, Comyn said. 
—Go on then, Talbot. 
—And the story, sir? 
—After, Stephen said. Go on, Talbot. 
A swarthy boy opened a book and propped it nimbly under the breastwork of hi satchel. He recited jerks of verse with odd glances at the text: 
—Weep no more, woful shepherds, weep no mor For Lycidas, your sorrow, is not dead, Sunk though he be beneath the watery floor... 
It must be a movement then, an actuality of the possible as possible. Aristotle’s phrase formed itself within the gabbled verses and floated out int the studious silence of the library of Saint Genevieve where he had read, sheltered from the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow a delicat Siamese conned a handbook of strategy. Fed and feeding brains about me: unde glowlamps, impaled, with faintly beating feelers: and in my mind’s darkness  sloth of the underworld, reluctant, shy of brightness, shifting her drago scaly folds. Thought is the thought of thought. Tranquil brightness. The sou is in a manner all that is: the soul is the form of forms. Tranquility sudden, vast, candescent: form of forms. 
Talbot repeated: 
—Through the dear might of Him that walked the waves, Through the dear might... 
—Turn over, Stephen said quietly. I don’t see anything. 
—What, sir? Talbot asked simply, bending forward. 
His hand turned the page over. He leaned back and went on again, having jus remembered. Of him that walked the waves. Here also over these craven heart his shadow lies and on the scoffer’s heart and lips and on mine. It lies upo their eager faces who offered him a coin of the tribute. To Caesar what i Caesar’s, to God what is God’s. A long look from dark eyes, a riddling sentenc to be woven and woven on the church’s looms. Ay. 
Riddle me, riddle me, randy ro. My father gave me seeds to sow. 
Talbot slid his closed book into his satchel. 
—Have I heard all? Stephen asked. 
—Yes, sir. Hockey at ten, sir. 
—Half day, sir. Thursday. 
—Who can answer a riddle? Stephen asked. 
They bundled their books away, pencils clacking, pages rustling. Crowdin together they strapped and buckled their satchels, all gabbling gaily: 
—A riddle, sir? Ask me, sir. 
—O, ask me, sir. 
—A hard one, sir. 
—This is the riddle, Stephen said: 
The cock crew, The sky was blue:The bells in heave Were striking eleven.\n’Tis time for this poor sou To go to heaven. 
What is that? 
—What, sir? 
—Again, sir. We didn’t hear. 
Their eyes grew bigger as the lines were repeated. After a silence Cochran said: 
—What is it, sir? We give it up. 
Stephen, his throat itching, answered: 
—The fox burying his grandmother under a hollybush. 
He stood up and gave a shout of nervous laughter to which their cries echoe dismay. 
A stick struck the door and a voice in the corridor called: 
—Hockey! 
They broke asunder, sidling out of their benches, leaping them. Quickly the were gone and from the lumberroom came the rattle of sticks and clamour o their boots and tongues. 
Sargent who alone had lingered came forward slowly, showing an open copybook. His tangled hair and scraggy neck gave witness of unreadiness and through hi misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading. On his cheek, dull and bloodless,  soft stain of ink lay, dateshaped, recent and damp as a snail’s bed. 
He held out his copybook. The word Sums was written on the headline. Beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a crooked signature with blin loops and a blot. Cyril Sargent: his name and seal. 
—Mr Deasy told me to write them out all again, he said, and show them t you, sir. 
Stephen touched the edges of the book. Futility. 
—Do you understand how to do them now? he asked. 
—Numbers eleven to fifteen, Sargent answered. Mr Deasy said I was to cop them off the board, sir. 
—Can you do them yourself? Stephen asked. 
—No, sir. 
Ugly and futile: lean neck and tangled hair and a stain of ink, a snail’s bed. Yet someone had loved him, borne him in her arms and in her heart. But for he the race of the world would have trampled him underfoot, a squashed boneles snail. She had loved his weak watery blood drained from her own. Was that the real? The only true thing in life? His mother’s prostrate body the fier Columbanus in holy zeal bestrode. She was no more: the trembling skeleton of  twig burnt in the fire, an odour of rosewood and wetted ashes. She had save him from being trampled underfoot and had gone, scarcely having been. A poo soul gone to heaven: and on a heath beneath winking stars a fox, red reek o rapine in his fur, with merciless bright eyes scraped in the earth, listened, scraped up the earth, listened, scraped and scraped. 
Sitting at his side Stephen solved out the problem. He proves by algebra tha Shakespeare’s ghost is Hamlet’s grandfather. Sargent peered askance through hi slanted glasses. Hockeysticks rattled in the lumberroom: the hollow knock of  ball and calls from the field. 
Across the page the symbols moved in grave morrice, in the mummery of thei letters, wearing quaint caps of squares and cubes. Give hands, traverse, bow t partner: so: imps of fancy of the Moors. Gone too from the world, Averroes an Moses Maimonides, dark men in mien and movement, flashing in their mockin mirrors the obscure soul of the world, a darkness shining in brightness whic brightness could not comprehend. 
—Do you understand now? Can you work the second for yourself? 
—Yes, sir. 
In long shaky strokes Sargent copied the data. Waiting always for a word o help his hand moved faithfully the unsteady symbols, a faint hue of sham flickering behind his dull skin. Amor matris: subjective and objectiv genitive. With her weak blood and wheysour milk she had fed him and hid fro sight of others his swaddling bands. 
Like him was I, these sloping shoulders, this gracelessness. My childhood bend beside me. Too far for me to lay a hand there once or lightly. Mine is far an his secret as our eyes. Secrets, silent, stony sit in the dark palaces of bot our hearts: secrets weary of their tyranny: tyrants, willing to be dethroned. 
The sum was done. 
—It is very simple, Stephen said as he stood up. 
—Yes, sir. Thanks, Sargent answered. 
He dried the page with a sheet of thin blottingpaper and carried his copyboo back to his bench. 
—You had better get your stick and go out to the others, Stephen said a he followed towards the door the boy’s graceless form. 
—Yes, sir. 
In the corridor his name was heard, called from the playfield. 
—Sargent! 
—Run on, Stephen said. Mr Deasy is calling you. 
He stood in the porch and watched the laggard hurry towards the scrappy fiel where sharp voices were in strife. They were sorted in teams and Mr Deasy cam away stepping over wisps of grass with gaitered feet. When he had reached th schoolhouse voices again contending called to him. He turned his angry whit moustache. 
—What is it now? he cried continually without listening. 
—Cochrane and Halliday are on the same side, sir, Stephen said. 
—Will you wait in my study for a moment, Mr Deasy said, till I restor order here. 
And as he stepped fussily back across the field his old man’s voice crie sternly: 
—What is the matter? What is it now? 
Their sharp voices cried about him on all sides: their many forms closed roun him, the garish sunshine bleaching the honey of his illdyed head. 
Stale smoky air hung in the study with the smell of drab abraded leather of it chairs. As on the first day he bargained with me here. As it was in th beginning, is now. On the sideboard the tray of Stuart coins, base treasure o a bog: and ever shall be. And snug in their spooncase of purple plush, faded, the twelve apostles having preached to all the gentiles: world without end. 
A hasty step over the stone porch and in the corridor. Blowing out his rar moustache Mr Deasy halted at the table. 
—First, our little financial settlement, he said. 
He brought out of his coat a pocketbook bound by a leather thong. It slappe open and he took from it two notes, one of joined halves, and laid the carefully on the table. 
—Two, he said, strapping and stowing his pocketbook away. 
And now his strongroom for the gold. Stephen’s embarrassed hand moved over th shells heaped in the cold stone mortar: whelks and money cowries and leopar shells: and this, whorled as an emir’s turban, and this, the scallop of sain James. An old pilgrim’s hoard, dead treasure, hollow shells. 
A sovereign fell, bright and new, on the soft pile of the tablecloth. 
—Three, Mr Deasy said, turning his little savingsbox about in his hand. These are handy things to have. See. This is for sovereigns. This is fo shillings. Sixpences, halfcrowns. And here crowns. See. 
He shot from it two crowns and two shillings. 
—Three twelve, he said. I think you’ll find that’s right. 
—Thank you, sir, Stephen said, gathering the money together with sh haste and putting it all in a pocket of his trousers. 
—No thanks at all, Mr Deasy said. You have earned it. 
Stephen’s hand, free again, went back to the hollow shells. Symbols too o beauty and of power. A lump in my pocket: symbols soiled by greed and misery. 
—Don’t carry it like that, Mr Deasy said. You’ll pull it out somewher and lose it. You just buy one of these machines. You’ll find them very handy. 
Answer something. 
—Mine would be often empty, Stephen said. 
The same room and hour, the same wisdom: and I the same. Three times now. Thre nooses round me here. Well? I can break them in this instant if I will. 
—Because you don’t save, Mr Deasy said, pointing his finger. You don’ know yet what money is. Money is power. When you have lived as long as I have. I know, I know. If youth but knew. But what does Shakespeare say? Put bu money in thy purse. 
—Iago, Stephen murmured. 
He lifted his gaze from the idle shells to the old man’s stare. 
—He knew what money was, Mr Deasy said. He made money. A poet, yes, bu an Englishman too. Do you know what is the pride of the English? Do you kno what is the proudest word you will ever hear from an Englishman’s mouth? 
The seas’ ruler. His seacold eyes looked on the empty bay: it seems history i to blame: on me and on my words, unhating. 
—That on his empire, Stephen said, the sun never sets. 
—Ba! Mr Deasy cried. That’s not English. A French Celt said that. H tapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail. 
—I will tell you, he said solemnly, what is his proudest boast. I pai my way. 
Good man, good man. 
—I paid my way. I never borrowed a shilling in my life. Can yo feel that? I owe nothing. Can you? 
Mulligan, nine pounds, three pairs of socks, one pair brogues, ties. Curran, ten guineas. McCann, one guinea. Fred Ryan, two shillings. Temple, two lunches. Russell, one guinea, Cousins, ten shillings, Bob Reynolds, half a guinea, Koehler, three guineas, Mrs MacKernan, five weeks’ board. The lump I have i useless. 
—For the moment, no, Stephen answered. 
Mr Deasy laughed with rich delight, putting back his savingsbox. 
—I knew you couldn’t, he said joyously. But one day you must feel it. W are a generous people but we must also be just. 
—I fear those big words, Stephen said, which make us so unhappy. 
Mr Deasy stared sternly for some moments over the mantelpiece at the shapel bulk of a man in tartan fillibegs: Albert Edward, prince of Wales. 
—You think me an old fogey and an old tory, his thoughtful voice said.  saw three generations since O’Connell’s time. I remember the famine in ’46. D you know that the orange lodges agitated for repeal of the union twenty year before O’Connell did or before the prelates of your communion denounced him a a demagogue? You fenians forget some things. 
Glorious, pious and immortal memory. The lodge of Diamond in Armagh th splendid behung with corpses of papishes. Hoarse, masked and armed, th planters’ covenant. The black north and true blue bible. Croppies lie down. 
Stephen sketched a brief gesture. 
—I have rebel blood in me too, Mr Deasy said. On the spindle side. But  am descended from sir John Blackwood who voted for the union. We are all Irish, all kings’ sons. 
—Alas, Stephen said. 
—Per vias rectas, Mr Deasy said firmly, was his motto. He vote for it and put on his topboots to ride to Dublin from the Ards of Down to d so. 
Lal the ral the r The rocky road to Dublin. 
A gruff squire on horseback with shiny topboots. Soft day, sir John! Soft day, your honour!... Day!... Day!... Two topboots jog dangling on to Dublin. Lal th ral the ra. Lal the ral the raddy. 
—That reminds me, Mr Deasy said. You can do me a favour, Mr Dedalus, wit some of your literary friends. I have a letter here for the press. Sit down  moment. I have just to copy the end. 
He went to the desk near the window, pulled in his chair twice and read of some words from the sheet on the drum of his typewriter. 
—Sit down. Excuse me, he said over his shoulder, the dictates o common sense. Just a moment. 
He peered from under his shaggy brows at the manuscript by his elbow and, muttering, began to prod the stiff buttons of the keyboard slowly, sometime blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an error. 
Stephen seated himself noiselessly before the princely presence. Framed aroun the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage, their meek heads poised i air: lord Hastings’ Repulse, the duke of Westminster’s Shotover, the duke of Beaufort’s Ceylon, prix de Paris, 1866. Elfin rider sat them, watchful of a sign. He saw their speeds, backing king’s colours, an shouted with the shouts of vanished crowds. 
—Full stop, Mr Deasy bade his keys. But prompt ventilation of thi allimportant question... 
Where Cranly led me to get rich quick, hunting his winners among th mudsplashed brakes, amid the bawls of bookies on their pitches and reek of th canteen, over the motley slush. Even money Fair Rebel. Ten to one th field. Dicers and thimbleriggers we hurried by after the hoofs, the vying cap and jackets and past the meatfaced woman, a butcher’s dame, nuzzling thirstil her clove of orange. 
Shouts rang shrill from the boys’ playfield and a whirring whistle. 
Again: a goal. I am among them, among their battling bodies in a medley, th joust of life. You mean that knockkneed mother’s darling who seems to b slightly crawsick? Jousts. Time shocked rebounds, shock by shock. Jousts, slus and uproar of battles, the frozen deathspew of the slain, a shout o spearspikes baited with men’s bloodied guts. 
—Now then, Mr Deasy said, rising. 
He came to the table, pinning together his sheets. Stephen stood up. 
—I have put the matter into a nutshell, Mr Deasy said. It’s about th foot and mouth disease. Just look through it. There can be no two opinions o the matter. 
May I trespass on your valuable space. That doctrine of laissez fair which so often in our history. Our cattle trade. The way of all our ol industries. Liverpool ring which jockeyed the Galway harbour scheme. Europea conflagration. Grain supplies through the narrow waters of the channel. Th pluterperfect imperturbability of the department of agriculture. Pardoned  classical allusion. Cassandra. By a woman who was no better than she should be. To come to the point at issue. 
—I don’t mince words, do I? Mr Deasy asked as Stephen read on. 
Foot and mouth disease. Known as Koch’s preparation. Serum and virus. Percentage of salted horses. Rinderpest. Emperor’s horses at Mürzsteg, lowe Austria. Veterinary surgeons. Mr Henry Blackwood Price. Courteous offer a fai trial. Dictates of common sense. Allimportant question. In every sense of th word take the bull by the horns. Thanking you for the hospitality of you columns. 
—I want that to be printed and read, Mr Deasy said. You will see at th next outbreak they will put an embargo on Irish cattle. And it can be cured. I is cured. My cousin, Blackwood Price, writes to me it is regularly treated an cured in Austria by cattledoctors there. They offer to come over here. I a trying to work up influence with the department. Now I’m going to tr publicity. I am surrounded by difficulties, by... intrigues by... backstair influence by... 
He raised his forefinger and beat the air oldly before his voice spoke. 
—Mark my words, Mr Dedalus, he said. England is in the hands of the jews. In all the highest places: her finance, her press. And they are the signs of  nation’s decay. Wherever they gather they eat up the nation’s vital strength.  have seen it coming these years. As sure as we are standing here the je merchants are already at their work of destruction. Old England is dying. 
He stepped swiftly off, his eyes coming to blue life as they passed a broa sunbeam. He faced about and back again. 
—Dying, he said again, if not dead by now. 
The harlot’s cry from street to stree Shall weave old England’s windingsheet. 
His eyes open wide in vision stared sternly across the sunbeam in which h halted. 
—A merchant, Stephen said, is one who buys cheap and sells dear, jew o gentile, is he not? 
—They sinned against the light, Mr Deasy said gravely. And you can se the darkness in their eyes. And that is why they are wanderers on the earth t this day. 
On the steps of the Paris stock exchange the goldskinned men quoting prices o their gemmed fingers. Gabble of geese. They swarmed loud, uncouth about th temple, their heads thickplotting under maladroit silk hats. Not theirs: thes clothes, this speech, these gestures. Their full slow eyes belied the words, the gestures eager and unoffending, but knew the rancours massed about them an knew their zeal was vain. Vain patience to heap and hoard. Time surely woul scatter all. A hoard heaped by the roadside: plundered and passing on. Thei eyes knew their years of wandering and, patient, knew the dishonours of thei flesh. 
—Who has not? Stephen said. 
—What do you mean? Mr Deasy asked. 
He came forward a pace and stood by the table. His underjaw fell sideways ope uncertainly. Is this old wisdom? He waits to hear from me. 
—History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake. 
From the playfield the boys raised a shout. A whirring whistle: goal. What i that nightmare gave you a back kick? 
—The ways of the Creator are not our ways, Mr Deasy said. All huma history moves towards one great goal, the manifestation of God. 
Stephen jerked his thumb towards the window, saying: 
—That is God. 
Hooray! Ay! Whrrwhee! 
—What? Mr Deasy asked. 
—A shout in the street, Stephen answered, shrugging his shoulders. 
Mr Deasy looked down and held for awhile the wings of his nose tweaked betwee his fingers. Looking up again he set them free. 
—I am happier than you are, he said. We have committed many errors an many sins. A woman brought sin into the world. For a woman who was no bette than she should be, Helen, the runaway wife of Menelaus, ten years the Greek made war on Troy. A faithless wife first brought the strangers to our shor here, MacMurrough’s wife and her leman, O’Rourke, prince of Breffni. A woma too brought Parnell low. Many errors, many failures but not the one sin. I am  struggler now at the end of my days. But I will fight for the right till th end. 
For Ulster will figh And Ulster will be right. 
Stephen raised the sheets in his hand. 
—Well, sir, he began. 
—I foresee, Mr Deasy said, that you will not remain here very long a this work. You were not born to be a teacher, I think. Perhaps I am wrong. 
—A learner rather, Stephen said. 
And here what will you learn more? 
Mr Deasy shook his head. 
—Who knows? he said. To learn one must be humble. But life is the grea teacher. 
Stephen rustled the sheets again. 
—As regards these, he began. 
—Yes, Mr Deasy said. You have two copies there. If you can have the published at once. Telegraph. Irish Homestead. 
—I will try, Stephen said, and let you know tomorrow. I know two editor slightly. 
—That will do, Mr Deasy said briskly. I wrote last night to Mr Field, M. P. There is a meeting of the cattletraders’ association today at the Cit Arms hotel. I asked him to lay my letter before the meeting. You see if you ca get it into your two papers. What are they? 
—The Evening Telegraph... 
—That will do, Mr Deasy said. There is no time to lose. Now I have t answer that letter from my cousin. 
—Good morning, sir, Stephen said, putting the sheets in his pocket. Than you. 
—Not at all, Mr Deasy said as he searched the papers on his desk. I lik to break a lance with you, old as I am. 
—Good morning, sir, Stephen said again, bowing to his bent back. 
He went out by the open porch and down the gravel path under the trees, hearin the cries of voices and crack of sticks from the playfield. The lions couchan on the pillars as he passed out through the gate: toothless terrors. Still  will help him in his fight. Mulligan will dub me a new name: th bullockbefriending bard. 
—Mr Dedalus! 
Running after me. No more letters, I hope. 
—Just one moment. 
—Yes, sir, Stephen said, turning back at the gate. 
Mr Deasy halted, breathing hard and swallowing his breath. 
—I just wanted to say, he said. Ireland, they say, has the honour o being the only country which never persecuted the jews. Do you know that? No. And do you know why? 
He frowned sternly on the bright air. 
—Why, sir? Stephen asked, beginning to smile. 
—Because she never let them in, Mr Deasy said solemnly. 
A coughball of laughter leaped from his throat dragging after it a rattlin chain of phlegm. He turned back quickly, coughing, laughing, his lifted arm waving to the air. 
—She never let them in, he cried again through his laughter as he stampe on gaitered feet over the gravel of the path. That’s why.
On his wise shoulders through the checkerwork of leaves the sun flung spangles, dancing coins.



Ineluctable modality of the visible: at least that if no more, thought through my eyes. Signatures of all things I am here to read, seaspawn and seawrack, the nearing tide, that rusty boot. Snotgreen, bluesilver, rust: coloured signs. Limits of the diaphane. But he adds: in bodies. Then he was aware of them bodies before of them coloured. How? By knocking his sconce against them, sure. Go easy. Bald he was and a millionaire, maestro di color che sanno. Limit of the diaphane in. Why in? Diaphane, adiaphane. If you can put your five fingers through it it is a gate, if not a door. Shut your eyes and see.
Stephen closed his eyes to hear his boots crush crackling wrack and shells. You are walking through it howsomever. I am, a stride at a time. A very short space of time through very short times of space. Five, six: the nacheinander. Exactly: and that is the ineluctable modality of the audible. Open your eyes. No. Jesus! If I fell over a cliff that beetles o’er his base, fell through the nebeneinander ineluctably! I am getting on nicely in the dark. My ash sword hangs at my side. Tap with it: they do. My two feet in his boots are at the ends of his legs, nebeneinander. Sounds solid: made by the mallet of Los Demiurgos. Am I walking into eternity along Sandymount strand? Crush, crack, crick, crick. Wild sea money. Dominie Deasy kens them a’.
Won’t you come to Sandymount,
Madeline the mare?
Rhythm begins, you see. I hear. A catalectic tetrameter of iambs marching. No, agallop: deline the mare.
Open your eyes now. I will. One moment. Has all vanished since? If I open and am for ever in the black adiaphane. Basta! I will see if I can see.
See now. There all the time without you: and ever shall be, world without end.
They came down the steps from Leahy’s terrace prudently, Frauenzimmer: and down the shelving shore flabbily, their splayed feet sinking in the silted sand. Like me, like Algy, coming down to our mighty mother. Number one swung lourdily her midwife’s bag, the other’s gamp poked in the beach. From the liberties, out for the day. Mrs Florence MacCabe, relict of the late Patk MacCabe, deeply lamented, of Bride Street. One of her sisterhood lugged me squealing into life. Creation from nothing. What has she in the bag? A misbirth with a trailing navelcord, hushed in ruddy wool. The cords of all link back, strandentwining cable of all flesh. That is why mystic monks. Will you be as gods? Gaze in your omphalos. Hello. Kinch here. Put me on to Edenville. Aleph, alpha: nought, nought, one.
Spouse and helpmate of Adam Kadmon: Heva, naked Eve. She had no navel. Gaze. Belly without blemish, bulging big, a buckler of taut vellum, no, whiteheaped corn, orient and immortal, standing from everlasting to everlasting. Womb of sin.
Wombed in sin darkness I was too, made not begotten. By them, the man with my voice and my eyes and a ghostwoman with ashes on her breath. They clasped and sundered, did the coupler’s will. From before the ages He willed me and now may not will me away or ever. A lex eterna stays about Him. Is that then the divine substance wherein Father and Son are consubstantial? Where is poor dear Arius to try conclusions? Warring his life long upon the contransmagnificandjewbangtantiality. Illstarred heresiarch! In a Greek watercloset he breathed his last: euthanasia. With beaded mitre and with crozier, stalled upon his throne, widower of a widowed see, with upstiffed omophorion, with clotted hinderparts.
Airs romped round him, nipping and eager airs. They are coming, waves. The whitemaned seahorses, champing, brightwindbridled, the steeds of Mananaan.
I mustn’t forget his letter for the press. And after? The Ship, half twelve. By the way go easy with that money like a good young imbecile. Yes, I must.
His pace slackened. Here. Am I going to aunt Sara’s or not? My consubstantial father’s voice. Did you see anything of your artist brother Stephen lately? No? Sure he’s not down in Strasburg terrace with his aunt Sally? Couldn’t he fly a bit higher than that, eh? And and and and tell us, Stephen, how is uncle Si? O, weeping God, the things I married into! De boys up in de hayloft. The drunken little costdrawer and his brother, the cornet player. Highly respectable gondoliers! And skeweyed Walter sirring his father, no less! Sir. Yes, sir. No, sir. Jesus wept: and no wonder, by Christ!
I pull the wheezy bell of their shuttered cottage: and wait. They take me for a dun, peer out from a coign of vantage.
—It’s Stephen, sir.
—Let him in. Let Stephen in.
A bolt drawn back and Walter welcomes me.
—We thought you were someone else.
In his broad bed nuncle Richie, pillowed and blanketed, extends over the hillock of his knees a sturdy forearm. Cleanchested. He has washed the upper moiety.
—Morrow, nephew.
He lays aside the lapboard whereon he drafts his bills of costs for the eyes of master Goff and master Shapland Tandy, filing consents and common searches and a writ of Duces Tecum. A bogoak frame over his bald head: Wilde’s Requiescat. The drone of his misleading whistle brings Walter back.
—Yes, sir?
—Malt for Richie and Stephen, tell mother. Where is she?
—Bathing Crissie, sir.
Papa’s little bedpal. Lump of love.
—No, uncle Richie...
—Call me Richie. Damn your lithia water. It lowers. Whusky!
—Uncle Richie, really...
—Sit down or by the law Harry I’ll knock you down.
Walter squints vainly for a chair.
—He has nothing to sit down on, sir.
—He has nowhere to put it, you mug. Bring in our chippendale chair. Would you like a bite of something? None of your damned lawdeedaw airs here. The rich of a rasher fried with a herring? Sure? So much the better. We have nothing in the house but backache pills.
All’erta!
He drones bars of Ferrando’s aria di sortita. The grandest number, Stephen, in the whole opera. Listen.
His tuneful whistle sounds again, finely shaded, with rushes of the air, his fists bigdrumming on his padded knees.
This wind is sweeter.
Houses of decay, mine, his and all. You told the Clongowes gentry you had an uncle a judge and an uncle a general in the army. Come out of them, Stephen. Beauty is not there. Nor in the stagnant bay of Marsh’s library where you read the fading prophecies of Joachim Abbas. For whom? The hundredheaded rabble of the cathedral close. A hater of his kind ran from them to the wood of madness, his mane foaming in the moon, his eyeballs stars. Houyhnhnm, horsenostrilled. The oval equine faces, Temple, Buck Mulligan, Foxy Campbell, Lanternjaws. Abbas father, furious dean, what offence laid fire to their brains? Paff! Descende, calve, ut ne nimium decalveris. A garland of grey hair on his comminated head see him me clambering down to the footpace (descende!), clutching a monstrance, basiliskeyed. Get down, baldpoll! A choir gives back menace and echo, assisting about the altar’s horns, the snorted Latin of jackpriests moving burly in their albs, tonsured and oiled and gelded, fat with the fat of kidneys of wheat.
And at the same instant perhaps a priest round the corner is elevating it. Dringdring! And two streets off another locking it into a pyx. Dringadring! And in a ladychapel another taking housel all to his own cheek. Dringdring! Down, up, forward, back. Dan Occam thought of that, invincible doctor. A misty English morning the imp hypostasis tickled his brain. Bringing his host down and kneeling he heard twine with his second bell the first bell in the transept (he is lifting his) and, rising, heard (now I am lifting) their two bells (he is kneeling) twang in diphthong.
Cousin Stephen, you will never be a saint. Isle of saints. You were awfully holy, weren’t you? You prayed to the Blessed Virgin that you might not have a red nose. You prayed to the devil in Serpentine avenue that the fubsy widow in front might lift her clothes still more from the wet street. O si, certo! Sell your soul for that, do, dyed rags pinned round a squaw. More tell me, more still! On the top of the Howth tram alone crying to the rain: Naked women! Naked women! What about that, eh?
What about what? What else were they invented for?
Reading two pages apiece of seven books every night, eh? I was young. You bowed to yourself in the mirror, stepping forward to applause earnestly, striking face. Hurray for the Goddamned idiot! Hray! No-one saw: tell no-one. Books you were going to write with letters for titles. Have you read his F? O yes, but I prefer Q. Yes, but W is wonderful. O yes, W. Remember your epiphanies written on green oval leaves, deeply deep, copies to be sent if you died to all the great libraries of the world, including Alexandria? Someone was to read them there after a few thousand years, a mahamanvantara. Pico della Mirandola like. Ay, very like a whale. When one reads these strange pages of one long gone one feels that one is at one with one who once...
The grainy sand had gone from under his feet. His boots trod again a damp crackling mast, razorshells, squeaking pebbles, that on the unnumbered pebbles beats, wood sieved by the shipworm, lost Armada. Unwholesome sandflats waited to suck his treading soles, breathing upward sewage breath, a pocket of seaweed smouldered in seafire under a midden of man’s ashes. He coasted them, walking warily. A porterbottle stood up, stogged to its waist, in the cakey sand dough. A sentinel: isle of dreadful thirst. Broken hoops on the shore; at the land a maze of dark cunning nets; farther away chalkscrawled backdoors and on the higher beach a dryingline with two crucified shirts. Ringsend: wigwams of brown steersmen and master mariners. Human shells.
He halted. I have passed the way to aunt Sara’s. Am I not going there? Seems not. No-one about. He turned northeast and crossed the firmer sand towards the Pigeonhouse.
—Qui vous a mis dans cette fichue position?
—C’est le pigeon, Joseph.
Patrice, home on furlough, lapped warm milk with me in the bar MacMahon. Son of the wild goose, Kevin Egan of Paris. My father’s a bird, he lapped the sweet lait chaud with pink young tongue, plump bunny’s face. Lap, lapin. He hopes to win in the gros lots. About the nature of women he read in Michelet. But he must send me La Vie de Jésus by M. Léo Taxil. Lent it to his friend.
—C’est tordant, vous savez. Moi, je suis socialiste. Je ne crois pas en l’existence de Dieu. Faut pas le dire à mon père.
—Il croit?
—Mon père, oui.
Schluss. He laps.
My Latin quarter hat. God, we simply must dress the character. I want puce gloves. You were a student, weren’t you? Of what in the other devil’s name? Paysayenn. P. C. N., you know: physiques, chimiques et naturelles. Aha. Eating your groatsworth of mou en civet, fleshpots of Egypt, elbowed by belching cabmen. Just say in the most natural tone: when I was in Paris; boul’ Mich’, I used to. Yes, used to carry punched tickets to prove an alibi if they arrested you for murder somewhere. Justice. On the night of the seventeenth of February 1904 the prisoner was seen by two witnesses. Other fellow did it: other me. Hat, tie, overcoat, nose. Lui, c’est moi. You seem to have enjoyed yourself.
Proudly walking. Whom were you trying to walk like? Forget: a dispossessed. With mother’s money order, eight shillings, the banging door of the post office slammed in your face by the usher. Hunger toothache. Encore deux minutes. Look clock. Must get. Fermé. Hired dog! Shoot him to bloody bits with a bang shotgun, bits man spattered walls all brass buttons. Bits all khrrrrklak in place clack back. Not hurt? O, that’s all right. Shake hands. See what I meant, see? O, that’s all right. Shake a shake. O, that’s all only all right.
You were going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe after fiery Columbanus. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt from their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing: Euge! Euge! Pretending to speak broken English as you dragged your valise, porter threepence, across the slimy pier at Newhaven. Comment? Rich booty you brought back; Le Tutu, five tattered numbers of Pantalon Blanc et Culotte Rouge; a blue French telegram, curiosity to show:
—Mother dying come home father.
The aunt thinks you killed your mother. That’s why she won’t.
Then here’s a health to Mulligan’s aunt
And I’ll tell you the reason why.
She always kept things decent in
The Hannigan famileye.
His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over the sand furrows, along by the boulders of the south wall. He stared at them proudly, piled stone mammoth skulls. Gold light on sea, on sand, on boulders. The sun is there, the slender trees, the lemon houses.
Paris rawly waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Moist pith of farls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court the air. Belluomo rises from the bed of his wife’s lover’s wife, the kerchiefed housewife is astir, a saucer of acetic acid in her hand. In Rodot’s Yvonne and Madeleine newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering with gold teeth chaussons of pastry, their mouths yellowed with the pus of flan bréton. Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased pleasers, curled conquistadores.
Noon slumbers. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through fingers smeared with printer’s ink, sipping his green fairy as Patrice his white. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down their gullets. Un demi sétier! A jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron. She serves me at his beck. Il est irlandais. Hollandais? Non fromage. Deux irlandais, nous, Irlande, vous savez ah, oui! She thought you wanted a cheese hollandais. Your postprandial, do you know that word? Postprandial. There was a fellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer fellow, used to call it his postprandial. Well: slainte! Around the slabbed tables the tangle of wined breaths and grumbling gorges. His breath hangs over our saucestained plates, the green fairy’s fang thrusting between his lips. Of Ireland, the Dalcassians, of hopes, conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith now, A E, pimander, good shepherd of men. To yoke me as his yokefellow, our crimes our common cause. You’re your father’s son. I know the voice. His fustian shirt, sanguineflowered, trembles its Spanish tassels at his secrets. M. Drumont, famous journalist, Drumont, know what he called queen Victoria? Old hag with the yellow teeth. Vieille ogresse with the dents jaunes. Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, La Patrie, M. Millevoye, Félix Faure, know how he died? Licentious men. The froeken, bonne à tout faire, who rubs male nakedness in the bath at Upsala. Moi faire, she said, Tous les messieurs. Not this Monsieur, I said. Most licentious custom. Bath a most private thing. I wouldn’t let my brother, not even my own brother, most lascivious thing. Green eyes, I see you. Fang, I feel. Lascivious people.
The blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear. Loose tobaccoshreds catch fire: a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. Raw facebones under his peep of day boy’s hat. How the head centre got away, authentic version. Got up as a young bride, man, veil, orangeblossoms, drove out the road to Malahide. Did, faith. Of lost leaders, the betrayed, wild escapes. Disguises, clutched at, gone, not here.
Spurned lover. I was a strapping young gossoon at that time, I tell you. I’ll show you my likeness one day. I was, faith. Lover, for her love he prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist of his sept, under the walls of Clerkenwell and, crouching, saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upward in the fog. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. In gay Paree he hides, Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. Making his day’s stations, the dingy printingcase, his three taverns, the Montmartre lair he sleeps short night in, rue de la Goutte-d’Or, damascened with flyblown faces of the gone. Loveless, landless, wifeless. She is quite nicey comfy without her outcast man, madame in rue Gît-le-Cœur, canary and two buck lodgers. Peachy cheeks, a zebra skirt, frisky as a young thing’s. Spurned and undespairing. Tell Pat you saw me, won’t you? I wanted to get poor Pat a job one time. Mon fils, soldier of France. I taught him to sing The boys of Kilkenny are stout roaring blades. Know that old lay? I taught Patrice that. Old Kilkenny: saint Canice, Strongbow’s castle on the Nore. Goes like this. O, O. He takes me, Napper Tandy, by the hand.
O, O the boys of
Kilkenny...
Weak wasting hand on mine. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he them. Remembering thee, O Sion.
He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his boots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air of seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to the Kish lightship, am I? He stood suddenly, his feet beginning to sink slowly in the quaking soil. Turn back.
Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly in new sockets. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Through the barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet are sinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deep blue night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their pushedback chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned platters. Who to clear it? He has the key. I will not sleep there when this night comes. A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their blind bodies, the panthersahib and his pointer. Call: no answer. He lifted his feet up from the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. My soul walks with me, form of forms. So in the moon’s midwatches I pace the path above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing Elsinore’s tempting flood.
The flood is following me. I can watch it flow past from here. Get back then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He climbed over the sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplant in a grike.
A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. Before him the gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. Un coche ensablé Louis Veuillot called Gautier’s prose. These heavy sands are language tide and wind have silted here. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel rats. Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands and stones. Heavy of the past. Sir Lout’s toys. Mind you don’t get one bang on the ear. I’m the bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones for my steppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an Iridzman.
A point, live dog, grew into sight running across the sweep of sand. Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. You will not be master of others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. From farther away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures, two. The two maries. They have tucked it safe mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I see you. No, the dog. He is running back to them. Who?
Galleys of the Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, their bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane vikings, torcs of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the collar of gold. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon, spouting, hobbling in the shallows. Then from the starving cagework city a horde of jerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers’ knives, running, scaling, hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Their blood is in me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on the frozen Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering resin fires. I spoke to no-one: none to me.
The dog’s bark ran towards him, stopped, ran back. Dog of my enemy. I just simply stood pale, silent, bayed about. Terribilia meditans. A primrose doublet, fortune’s knave, smiled on my fear. For that are you pining, the bark of their applause? Pretenders: live their lives. The Bruce’s brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, silken knight, Perkin Warbeck, York’s false scion, in breeches of silk of whiterose ivory, wonder of a day, and Lambert Simnel, with a tail of nans and sutlers, a scullion crowned. All kings’ sons. Paradise of pretenders then and now. He saved men from drowning and you shake at a cur’s yelping. But the courtiers who mocked Guido in Or san Michele were in their own house. House of... We don’t want any of your medieval abstrusiosities. Would you do what he did? A boat would be near, a lifebuoy. Natürlich, put there for you. Would you or would you not? The man that was drowned nine days ago off Maiden’s rock. They are waiting for him now. The truth, spit it out. I would want to. I would try. I am not a strong swimmer. Water cold soft. When I put my face into it in the basin at Clongowes. Can’t see! Who’s behind me? Out quickly, quickly! Do you see the tide flowing quickly in on all sides, sheeting the lows of sand quickly, shellcocoacoloured? If I had land under my feet. I want his life still to be his, mine to be mine. A drowning man. His human eyes scream to me out of horror of his death. I... With him together down... I could not save her. Waters: bitter death: lost.
A woman and a man. I see her skirties. Pinned up, I bet.
Their dog ambled about a bank of dwindling sand, trotting, sniffing on all sides. Looking for something lost in a past life. Suddenly he made off like a bounding hare, ears flung back, chasing the shadow of a lowskimming gull. The man’s shrieked whistle struck his limp ears. He turned, bounded back, came nearer, trotted on twinkling shanks. On a field tenney a buck, trippant, proper, unattired. At the lacefringe of the tide he halted with stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. His snout lifted barked at the wavenoise, herds of seamorse. They serpented towards his feet, curling, unfurling many crests, every ninth, breaking, plashing, from far, from farther out, waves and waves.
Cocklepickers. They waded a little way in the water and, stooping, soused their bags and, lifting them again, waded out. The dog yelped running to them, reared up and pawed them, dropping on all fours, again reared up at them with mute bearish fawning. Unheeded he kept by them as they came towards the drier sand, a rag of wolf’s tongue redpanting from his jaws. His speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped off at a calf’s gallop. The carcass lay on his path. He stopped, sniffed, stalked round it, brother, nosing closer, went round it, sniffling rapidly like a dog all over the dead dog’s bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes on the ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody! Here lies poor dogsbody’s body.
—Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel!
The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. He slunk back in a curve. Doesn’t see me. Along by the edge of the mole he lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock and from under a cocked hindleg pissed against it. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissed quick short at an unsmelt rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. His hindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved. Something he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand, dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sand again with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in spousebreach, vulturing the dead.
After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. Open hallway. Street of harlots. Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almosting it. That man led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he had he held against my face. Smiled: creamfruit smell. That was the rule, said. In. Come. Red carpet spread. You will see who.
Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. His blued feet out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brick muffler strangling his unshaven neck. With woman steps she followed: the ruffian and his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand and shellgrit crusted her bare feet. About her windraw face hair trailed. Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. When night hides her body’s flaws calling under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs have mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in O’Loughlin’s of Blackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogues’ rum lingo, for, O, my dimber wapping dell! A shefiend’s whiteness under her rancid rags. Fumbally’s lane that night: the tanyard smells.
White thy fambles, red thy gan
And thy quarrons dainty is.
Couch a hogshead with me then.
In the darkmans clip and kiss.
Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, frate porcospino. Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let him: thy quarrons dainty is. Language no whit worse than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber on their girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their pockets.
Passing now.
A side eye at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here as I sit? I am not. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the sun’s flaming sword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps, trains, drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in her wake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, oinopa ponton, a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In sleep the wet sign calls her hour, bids her rise. Bridebed, childbed, bed of death, ghostcandled. Omnis caro ad te veniet. He comes, pale vampire, through storm his eyes, his bat sails bloodying the sea, mouth to her mouth’s kiss.
Here. Put a pin in that chap, will you? My tablets. Mouth to her kiss. No. Must be two of em. Glue em well. Mouth to her mouth’s kiss.
His lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air: mouth to her moomb. Oomb, allwombing tomb. His mouth moulded issuing breath, unspeeched: ooeeehah: roar of cataractic planets, globed, blazing, roaring wayawayawayawayaway. Paper. The banknotes, blast them. Old Deasy’s letter. Here. Thanking you for the hospitality tear the blank end off. Turning his back to the sun he bent over far to a table of rock and scribbled words. That’s twice I forgot to take slips from the library counter.
His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. Why not endless till the farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darkness shining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there with his augur’s rod of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid sea, unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of uncouth stars. I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it back. Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here? Who ever anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white field. Somewhere to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop of Cloyne took the veil of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space with coloured emblems hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat: yes, that’s right. Flat I see, then think distance, near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah, see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick. You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls do you not think? Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our sins, cling to us yet more, a woman to her lover clinging, the more the more.
She trusts me, her hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the blue hell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modality of the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? The virgin at Hodges Figgis’ window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabet books you were going to write. Keen glance you gave her. Wrist through the braided jesse of her sunshade. She lives in Leeson park with a grief and kickshaws, a lady of letters. Talk that to someone else, Stevie: a pickmeup. Bet she wears those curse of God stays suspenders and yellow stockings, darned with lumpy wool. Talk about apple dumplings, piuttosto. Where are your wits?
Touch me. Soft eyes. Soft soft soft hand. I am lonely here. O, touch me soon, now. What is that word known to all men? I am quiet here alone. Sad too. Touch, touch me.
He lay back at full stretch over the sharp rocks, cramming the scribbled note and pencil into a pocket, his hat tilted down on his eyes. That is Kevin Egan’s movement I made, nodding for his nap, sabbath sleep. Et vidit Deus. Et erant valde bona. Alo! Bonjour. Welcome as the flowers in May. Under its leaf he watched through peacocktwittering lashes the southing sun. I am caught in this burning scene. Pan’s hour, the faunal noon. Among gumheavy serpentplants, milkoozing fruits, where on the tawny waters leaves lie wide. Pain is far.
And no more turn aside and brood.
His gaze brooded on his broadtoed boots, a buck’s castoffs, nebeneinander. He counted the creases of rucked leather wherein another’s foot had nested warm. The foot that beat the ground in tripudium, foot I dislove. But you were delighted when Esther Osvalt’s shoe went on you: girl I knew in Paris. Tiens, quel petit pied! Staunch friend, a brother soul: Wilde’s love that dare not speak its name. His arm: Cranly’s arm. He now will leave me. And the blame? As I am. As I am. All or not at all.
In long lassoes from the Cock lake the water flowed full, covering greengoldenly lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will float away. I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against the low rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job over quick. Listen: a fourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath of waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. In cups of rocks it slops: flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. It flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling.
Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night: lifted, flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to, they sigh. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting, awaiting the fullness of their times, diebus ac noctibus iniurias patiens ingemiscit. To no end gathered; vainly then released, forthflowing, wending back: loom of the moon. Weary too in sight of lovers, lascivious men, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters.
Five fathoms out there. Full fathom five thy father lies. At one, he said. Found drowned. High water at Dublin bar. Driving before it a loose drift of rubble, fanshoals of fishes, silly shells. A corpse rising saltwhite from the undertow, bobbing a pace a pace a porpoise landward. There he is. Hook it quick. Pull. Sunk though he be beneath the watery floor. We have him. Easy now.
Bag of corpsegas sopping in foul brine. A quiver of minnows, fat of a spongy titbit, flash through the slits of his buttoned trouserfly. God becomes man becomes fish becomes barnacle goose becomes featherbed mountain. Dead breaths I living breathe, tread dead dust, devour a urinous offal from all dead. Hauled stark over the gunwale he breathes upward the stench of his green grave, his leprous nosehole snoring to the sun.
A seachange this, brown eyes saltblue. Seadeath, mildest of all deaths known to man. Old Father Ocean. Prix de Paris: beware of imitations. Just you give it a fair trial. We enjoyed ourselves immensely.
Come. I thirst. Clouding over. No black clouds anywhere, are there? Thunderstorm. Allbright he falls, proud lightning of the intellect, Lucifer, dico, qui nescit occasum. No. My cockle hat and staff and hismy sandal shoon. Where? To evening lands. Evening will find itself.
He took the hilt of his ashplant, lunging with it softly, dallying still. Yes, evening will find itself in me, without me. All days make their end. By the way next when is it Tuesday will be the longest day. Of all the glad new year, mother, the rum tum tiddledy tum. Lawn Tennyson, gentleman poet. Già. For the old hag with the yellow teeth. And Monsieur Drumont, gentleman journalist. Già. My teeth are very bad. Why, I wonder. Feel. That one is going too. Shells. Ought I go to a dentist, I wonder, with that money? That one. This. Toothless Kinch, the superman. Why is that, I wonder, or does it mean something perhaps?
My handkerchief. He threw it. I remember. Did I not take it up?
His hand groped vainly in his pockets. No, I didn’t. Better buy one.
He laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock, carefully. For the rest let look who will.
Behind. Perhaps there is someone.
He turned his face over a shoulder, rere regardant. Moving through the air high spars of a threemaster, her sails brailed up on the crosstrees, homing, upstream, silently moving, a silent ship.



 
Mr Leopold Bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls. He like thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast heart, liverslices frie with crustcrumbs, fried hencods’ roes. Most of all he liked grilled mutto kidneys which gave to his palate a fine tang of faintly scented urine. 
Kidneys were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen softly, righting he breakfast things on the humpy tray. Gelid light and air were in the kitchen bu out of doors gentle summer morning everywhere. Made him feel a bit peckish. 
The coals were reddening. 
Another slice of bread and butter: three, four: right. She didn’t like he plate full. Right. He turned from the tray, lifted the kettle off the hob an set it sideways on the fire. It sat there, dull and squat, its spout stuck out. Cup of tea soon. Good. Mouth dry. The cat walked stiffly round a leg of th table with tail on high. 
—Mkgnao! 
—O, there you are, Mr Bloom said, turning from the fire. 
The cat mewed in answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of the table, mewing. Just how she stalks over my writingtable. Prr. Scratch my head. Prr. 
Mr Bloom watched curiously, kindly the lithe black form. Clean to see: th gloss of her sleek hide, the white button under the butt of her tail, the gree flashing eyes. He bent down to her, his hands on his knees. 
—Milk for the pussens, he said. 
—Mrkgnao! the cat cried. 
They call them stupid. They understand what we say better than we understan them. She understands all she wants to. Vindictive too. Cruel. Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like it. Wonder what I look like to her. Height of a tower? No, she can jump me. 
—Afraid of the chickens she is, he said mockingly. Afraid of th chookchooks. I never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens. 
—Mrkrgnao! the cat said loudly. 
She blinked up out of her avid shameclosing eyes, mewing plaintively and long, showing him her milkwhite teeth. He watched the dark eyeslits narrowing wit greed till her eyes were green stones. Then he went to the dresser, took th jug Hanlon’s milkman had just filled for him, poured warmbubbled milk on  saucer and set it slowly on the floor. 
—Gurrhr! she cried, running to lap. 
He watched the bristles shining wirily in the weak light as she tipped thre times and licked lightly. Wonder is it true if you clip them they can’t mous after. Why? They shine in the dark, perhaps, the tips. Or kind of feelers i the dark, perhaps. 
He listened to her licking lap. Ham and eggs, no. No good eggs with thi drouth. Want pure fresh water. Thursday: not a good day either for a mutto kidney at Buckley’s. Fried with butter, a shake of pepper. Better a pork kidne at Dlugacz’s. While the kettle is boiling. She lapped slower, then licking th saucer clean. Why are their tongues so rough? To lap better, all porous holes. Nothing she can eat? He glanced round him. No. 
On quietly creaky boots he went up the staircase to the hall, paused by th bedroom door. She might like something tasty. Thin bread and butter she like in the morning. Still perhaps: once in a way. 
He said softly in the bare hall: 
—I’m going round the corner. Be back in a minute. 
And when he had heard his voice say it he added: 
—You don’t want anything for breakfast? 
A sleepy soft grunt answered: 
—Mn. 
No. She didn’t want anything. He heard then a warm heavy sigh, softer, as sh turned over and the loose brass quoits of the bedstead jingled. Must get thos settled really. Pity. All the way from Gibraltar. Forgotten any little Spanis she knew. Wonder what her father gave for it. Old style. Ah yes! of course. Bought it at the governor’s auction. Got a short knock. Hard as nails at  bargain, old Tweedy. Yes, sir. At Plevna that was. I rose from the ranks, sir, and I’m proud of it. Still he had brains enough to make that corner in stamps. Now that was farseeing. 
His hand took his hat from the peg over his initialled heavy overcoat and hi lost property office secondhand waterproof. Stamps: stickyback pictures. Daresay lots of officers are in the swim too. Course they do. The sweate legend in the crown of his hat told him mutely: Plasto’s high grade ha. H peeped quickly inside the leather headband. White slip of paper. Quite safe. 
On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey. Not there. In th trousers I left off. Must get it. Potato I have. Creaky wardrobe. No us disturbing her. She turned over sleepily that time. He pulled the halldoor t after him very quietly, more, till the footleaf dropped gently over th threshold, a limp lid. Looked shut. All right till I come back anyhow. 
He crossed to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of numbe seventyfive. The sun was nearing the steeple of George’s church. Be a warm da I fancy. Specially in these black clothes feel it more. Black conducts, reflects, (refracts is it?), the heat. But I couldn’t go in that light suit. Make a picnic of it. His eyelids sank quietly often as he walked in happ warmth. Boland’s breadvan delivering with trays our daily but she prefer yesterday’s loaves turnovers crisp crowns hot. Makes you feel young. Somewher in the east: early morning: set off at dawn. Travel round in front of the sun, steal a day’s march on him. Keep it up for ever never grow a day olde technically. Walk along a strand, strange land, come to a city gate, sentr there, old ranker too, old Tweedy’s big moustaches, leaning on a long kind of  spear. Wander through awned streets. Turbaned faces going by. Dark caves o carpet shops, big man, Turko the terrible, seated crosslegged, smoking a coile pipe. Cries of sellers in the streets. Drink water scented with fennel, sherbet. Dander along all day. Might meet a robber or two. Well, meet him. Getting on to sundown. The shadows of the mosques among the pillars: pries with a scroll rolled up. A shiver of the trees, signal, the evening wind.  pass on. Fading gold sky. A mother watches me from her doorway. She calls he children home in their dark language. High wall: beyond strings twanged. Nigh sky, moon, violet, colour of Molly’s new garters. Strings. Listen. A gir playing one of those instruments what do you call them: dulcimers. I pass. 
Probably not a bit like it really. Kind of stuff you read: in the track of th sun. Sunburst on the titlepage. He smiled, pleasing himself. What Arthu Griffith said about the headpiece over the Freeman leader: a homerul sun rising up in the northwest from the laneway behind the bank of Ireland. H prolonged his pleased smile. Ikey touch that: homerule sun rising up in th northwest. 
He approached Larry O’Rourke’s. From the cellar grating floated up the flabb gush of porter. Through the open doorway the bar squirted out whiffs of ginger, teadust, biscuitmush. Good house, however: just the end of the city traffic. For instance M’Auley’s down there: n. g. as position. Of course if they ran  tramline along the North Circular from the cattlemarket to the quays valu would go up like a shot. 
Baldhead over the blind. Cute old codger. No use canvassing him for an ad. Still he knows his own business best. There he is, sure enough, my bold Larry, leaning against the sugarbin in his shirtsleeves watching the aproned curat swab up with mop and bucket. Simon Dedalus takes him off to a tee with his eye screwed up. Do you know what I’m going to tell you? What’s that, Mr O’Rourke?Do you know what? The Russians, they’d only be an eight o’clock breakfast fo the Japanese. 
Stop and say a word: about the funeral perhaps. Sad thing about poor Dignam, M O’Rourke. 
Turning into Dorset street he said freshly in greeting through the doorway: 
—Good day, Mr O’Rourke. 
—Good day to you. 
—Lovely weather, sir. 
—’Tis all that. 
Where do they get the money? Coming up redheaded curates from the count Leitrim, rinsing empties and old man in the cellar. Then, lo and behold, the blossom out as Adam Findlaters or Dan Tallons. Then think of the competition. General thirst. Good puzzle would be cross Dublin without passing a pub. Sav it they can’t. Off the drunks perhaps. Put down three and carry five. What i that, a bob here and there, dribs and drabs. On the wholesale orders perhaps. Doing a double shuffle with the town travellers. Square it you with the bos and we’ll split the job, see? 
How much would that tot to off the porter in the month? Say ten barrels o stuff. Say he got ten per cent off. O more. Fifteen. He passed Saint Joseph’ National school. Brats’ clamour. Windows open. Fresh air helps memory. Or  lilt. Ahbeesee defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouvee doubleyou. Boys are they?Yes. Inishturk. Inishark. Inishboffin. At their joggerfry. Mine. Slieve Bloom. 
He halted before Dlugacz’s window, staring at the hanks of sausages, polonies, black and white. Fifteen multiplied by. The figures whitened in his mind, unsolved: displeased, he let them fade. The shiny links, packed with forcemeat, fed his gaze and he breathed in tranquilly the lukewarm breath of cooked spic pigs’ blood. 
A kidney oozed bloodgouts on the willowpatterned dish: the last. He stood b the nextdoor girl at the counter. Would she buy it too, calling the items fro a slip in her hand? Chapped: washingsoda. And a pound and a half of Denny’ sausages. His eyes rested on her vigorous hips. Woods his name is. Wonder wha he does. Wife is oldish. New blood. No followers allowed. Strong pair of arms. Whacking a carpet on the clothesline. She does whack it, by George. The way he crooked skirt swings at each whack. 
The ferreteyed porkbutcher folded the sausages he had snipped off with blotch fingers, sausagepink. Sound meat there: like a stallfed heifer. 
He took a page up from the pile of cut sheets: the model farm at Kinnereth o the lakeshore of Tiberias. Can become ideal winter sanatorium. Mose Montefiore. I thought he was. Farmhouse, wall round it, blurred cattl cropping. He held the page from him: interesting: read it nearer, the title, the blurred cropping cattle, the page rustling. A young white heifer. Thos mornings in the cattlemarket, the beasts lowing in their pens, branded sheep, flop and fall of dung, the breeders in hobnailed boots trudging through th litter, slapping a palm on a ripemeated hindquarter, there’s a prime one, unpeeled switches in their hands. He held the page aslant patiently, bendin his senses and his will, his soft subject gaze at rest. The crooked skir swinging, whack by whack by whack. 
The porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pile, wrapped up her prime sausage and made a red grimace. 
—Now, my miss, he said. 
She tendered a coin, smiling boldly, holding her thick wrist out. 
—Thank you, my miss. And one shilling threepence change. For you, please? 
Mr Bloom pointed quickly. To catch up and walk behind her if she went slowly, behind her moving hams. Pleasant to see first thing in the morning. Hurry up, damn it. Make hay while the sun shines. She stood outside the shop in sunligh and sauntered lazily to the right. He sighed down his nose: they neve understand. Sodachapped hands. Crusted toenails too. Brown scapulars i tatters, defending her both ways. The sting of disregard glowed to wea pleasure within his breast. For another: a constable off duty cuddling her i Eccles’ Lane. They like them sizeable. Prime sausage. O please, Mr Policeman, I’m lost in the wood. 
—Threepence, please. 
His hand accepted the moist tender gland and slid it into a sidepocket. Then i fetched up three coins from his trousers’ pocket and laid them on the rubbe prickles. They lay, were read quickly and quickly slid, disc by disc, into th till. 
—Thank you, sir. Another time. 
A speck of eager fire from foxeyes thanked him. He withdrew his gaze after a instant. No: better not: another time. 
—Good morning, he said, moving away. 
—Good morning, sir. 
No sign. Gone. What matter? 
He walked back along Dorset street, reading gravely. Agendath Netaim: planters’company. To purchase waste sandy tracts from Turkish government and plant wit eucalyptus trees. Excellent for shade, fuel and construction. Orangegroves an immense melonfields north of Jaffa. You pay eighty marks and they plant a duna of land for you with olives, oranges, almonds or citrons. Olives cheaper:oranges need artificial irrigation. Every year you get a sending of the crop. Your name entered for life as owner in the book of the union. Can pay ten dow and the balance in yearly instalments. Bleibtreustrasse 34, Berlin, W. 15. 
Nothing doing. Still an idea behind it. 
He looked at the cattle, blurred in silver heat. Silverpowdered olivetrees. Quiet long days: pruning, ripening. Olives are packed in jars, eh? I have a fe left from Andrews. Molly spitting them out. Knows the taste of them now. Oranges in tissue paper packed in crates. Citrons too. Wonder is poor Citro still in Saint Kevin’s parade. And Mastiansky with the old cither. Pleasan evenings we had then. Molly in Citron’s basketchair. Nice to hold, cool waxe fruit, hold in the hand, lift it to the nostrils and smell the perfume. Lik that, heavy, sweet, wild perfume. Always the same, year after year. The fetched high prices too, Moisel told me. Arbutus place: Pleasants street:pleasant old times. Must be without a flaw, he said. Coming all that way:Spain, Gibraltar, Mediterranean, the Levant. Crates lined up on the quayside a Jaffa, chap ticking them off in a book, navvies handling them barefoot i soiled dungarees. There’s whatdoyoucallhim out of. How do you? Doesn’t see. Chap you know just to salute bit of a bore. His back is like that Norwegia captain’s. Wonder if I’ll meet him today. Watering cart. To provoke the rain. On earth as it is in heaven. 
A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly. Grey. Far. 
No, not like that. A barren land, bare waste. Vulcanic lake, the dead sea: n fish, weedless, sunk deep in the earth. No wind could lift those waves, gre metal, poisonous foggy waters. Brimstone they called it raining down: th cities of the plain: Sodom, Gomorrah, Edom. All dead names. A dead sea in  dead land, grey and old. Old now. It bore the oldest, the first race. A ben hag crossed from Cassidy’s, clutching a naggin bottle by the neck. The oldes people. Wandered far away over all the earth, captivity to captivity, multiplying, dying, being born everywhere. It lay there now. Now it could bea no more. Dead: an old woman’s: the grey sunken cunt of the world. 
Desolation. 
Grey horror seared his flesh. Folding the page into his pocket he turned int Eccles street, hurrying homeward. Cold oils slid along his veins, chilling hi blood: age crusting him with a salt cloak. Well, I am here now. Yes, I am her now. Morning mouth bad images. Got up wrong side of the bed. Must begin agai those Sandow’s exercises. On the hands down. Blotchy brown brick houses. Numbe eighty still unlet. Why is that? Valuation is only twentyeight. Towers, Battersby, North, MacArthur: parlour windows plastered with bills. Plasters o a sore eye. To smell the gentle smoke of tea, fume of the pan, sizzling butter. Be near her ample bedwarmed flesh. Yes, yes. 
Quick warm sunlight came running from Berkeley road, swiftly, in slim sandals, along the brightening footpath. Runs, she runs to meet me, a girl with gol hair on the wind. 
Two letters and a card lay on the hallfloor. He stooped and gathered them. Mr Marion Bloom. His quickened heart slowed at once. Bold hand. Mrs Marion. 
—Poldy! 
Entering the bedroom he halfclosed his eyes and walked through warm yello twilight towards her tousled head. 
—Who are the letters for? 
He looked at them. Mullingar. Milly. 
—A letter for me from Milly, he said carefully, and a card to you. And  letter for you. 
He laid her card and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve of her knees. 
—Do you want the blind up? 
Letting the blind up by gentle tugs halfway his backward eye saw her glance a the letter and tuck it under her pillow. 
—That do? he asked, turning. 
She was reading the card, propped on her elbow. 
—She got the things, she said. 
He waited till she had laid the card aside and curled herself back slowly wit a snug sigh. 
—Hurry up with that tea, she said. I’m parched. 
—The kettle is boiling, he said. 
But he delayed to clear the chair: her striped petticoat, tossed soiled linen:and lifted all in an armful on to the foot of the bed. 
As he went down the kitchen stairs she called: 
—Poldy! 
—What? 
—Scald the teapot. 
On the boil sure enough: a plume of steam from the spout. He scalded and rinse out the teapot and put in four full spoons of tea, tilting the kettle then t let the water flow in. Having set it to draw he took off the kettle, crushe the pan flat on the live coals and watched the lump of butter slide and melt. While he unwrapped the kidney the cat mewed hungrily against him. Give her to much meat she won’t mouse. Say they won’t eat pork. Kosher. Here. He let th bloodsmeared paper fall to her and dropped the kidney amid the sizzling butte sauce. Pepper. He sprinkled it through his fingers ringwise from the chippe eggcup. 
Then he slit open his letter, glancing down the page and over. Thanks: new tam:Mr Coghlan: lough Owel picnic: young student: Blazes Boylan’s seaside girls. 
The tea was drawn. He filled his own moustachecup, sham crown Derby, smiling. Silly Milly’s birthday gift. Only five she was then. No, wait: four. I gave he the amberoid necklace she broke. Putting pieces of folded brown paper in th letterbox for her. He smiled, pouring. 
O, Milly Bloom, you are my darling. You are my lookingglass from night to morning. I’d rather have you without a farthin Than Katey Keogh with her ass and garden. 
Poor old professor Goodwin. Dreadful old case. Still he was a courteous ol chap. Oldfashioned way he used to bow Molly off the platform. And the littl mirror in his silk hat. The night Milly brought it into the parlour. O, loo what I found in professor Goodwin’s hat! All we laughed. Sex breaking out eve then. Pert little piece she was. 
He prodded a fork into the kidney and slapped it over: then fitted the teapo on the tray. Its hump bumped as he took it up. Everything on it? Bread an butter, four, sugar, spoon, her cream. Yes. He carried it upstairs, his thum hooked in the teapot handle. 
Nudging the door open with his knee he carried the tray in and set it on th chair by the bedhead. 
—What a time you were! she said. 
She set the brasses jingling as she raised herself briskly, an elbow on th pillow. He looked calmly down on her bulk and between her large soft bubs, sloping within her nightdress like a shegoat’s udder. The warmth of her couche body rose on the air, mingling with the fragrance of the tea she poured. 
A strip of torn envelope peeped from under the dimpled pillow. In the act o going he stayed to straighten the bedspread. 
—Who was the letter from? he asked. 
Bold hand. Marion. 
—O, Boylan, she said. He’s bringing the programme. 
—What are you singing? 
—Là ci darem with J. C. Doyle, she said, and Love’s Old Swee Song. 
Her full lips, drinking, smiled. Rather stale smell that incense leaves nex day. Like foul flowerwater. 
—Would you like the window open a little? 
She doubled a slice of bread into her mouth, asking: 
—What time is the funeral? 
—Eleven, I think, he answered. I didn’t see the paper. 
Following the pointing of her finger he took up a leg of her soiled drawer from the bed. No? Then, a twisted grey garter looped round a stocking: rumpled, shiny sole. 
—No: that book. 
Other stocking. Her petticoat. 
—It must have fell down, she said. 
He felt here and there. Voglio e non vorrei. Wonder if she pronounce that right: voglio. Not in the bed. Must have slid down. He stooped an lifted the valance. The book, fallen, sprawled against the bulge of th orangekeyed chamberpot. 
—Show here, she said. I put a mark in it. There’s a word I wanted to as you. 
She swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and, having wipe her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search the text with th hairpin till she reached the word. 
—Met him what? he asked. 
—Here, she said. What does that mean? 
He leaned downward and read near her polished thumbnail. 
—Metempsychosis? 
—Yes. Who’s he when he’s at home? 
—Metempsychosis, he said, frowning. It’s Greek: from the Greek. Tha means the transmigration of souls. 
—O, rocks! she said. Tell us in plain words. 
He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eyes. The same young eyes. The firs night after the charades. Dolphin’s Barn. He turned over the smudged pages. Ruby: the Pride of the Ring. Hello. Illustration. Fierce Italian wit carriagewhip. Must be Ruby pride of the on the floor naked. Sheet kindly lent. The monster Maffei desisted and flung his victim from him with an oath. Cruelty behind it all. Doped animals. Trapeze at Hengler’s. Had to look th other way. Mob gaping. Break your neck and we’ll break our sides. Families o them. Bone them young so they metamspychosis. That we live after death. Ou souls. That a man’s soul after he dies. Dignam’s soul... 
—Did you finish it? he asked. 
—Yes, she said. There’s nothing smutty in it. Is she in love with th first fellow all the time? 
—Never read it. Do you want another? 
—Yes. Get another of Paul de Kock’s. Nice name he has. 
She poured more tea into her cup, watching it flow sideways. 
Must get that Capel street library book renewed or they’ll write to Kearney, m guarantor. Reincarnation: that’s the word. 
—Some people believe, he said, that we go on living in another body afte death, that we lived before. They call it reincarnation. That we all live before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other planet. They say w have forgotten it. Some say they remember their past lives. 
The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea. Better remind her o the word: metempsychosis. An example would be better. An example? 
The Bath of the Nymph over the bed. Given away with the Easter number o Photo Bits: Splendid masterpiece in art colours. Tea before you put mil in. Not unlike her with her hair down: slimmer. Three and six I gave for th frame. She said it would look nice over the bed. Naked nymphs: Greece: and fo instance all the people that lived then. 
He turned the pages back. 
—Metempsychosis, he said, is what the ancient Greeks called it. They use to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree, for instance. Wha they called nymphs, for example. 
Her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar. She gazed straight before her, inhalin through her arched nostrils. 
—There’s a smell of burn, she said. Did you leave anything on the fire? 
—The kidney! he cried suddenly. 
He fitted the book roughly into his inner pocket and, stubbing his toes agains the broken commode, hurried out towards the smell, stepping hastily down th stairs with a flurried stork’s legs. Pungent smoke shot up in an angry jet fro a side of the pan. By prodding a prong of the fork under the kidney he detache it and turned it turtle on its back. Only a little burnt. He tossed it off th pan on to a plate and let the scanty brown gravy trickle over it. 
Cup of tea now. He sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf. He shor away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat. Then he put a forkful into hi mouth, chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat. Done to a turn.  mouthful of tea. Then he cut away dies of bread, sopped one in the gravy an put it in his mouth. What was that about some young student and a picnic? H creased out the letter at his side, reading it slowly as he chewed, soppin another die of bread in the gravy and raising it to his mouth. 
Dearest Papli
Thanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present. It suits me splendid. Everyone says I am quite the belle in my new tam. I got mummy’s lovely box o creams and am writing. They are lovely. I am getting on swimming in the phot business now. Mr Coghlan took one of me and Mrs. Will send when developed. W did great biz yesterday. Fair day and all the beef to the heels were in. We ar going to lough Owel on Monday with a few friends to make a scrap picnic. Giv my love to mummy and to yourself a big kiss and thanks. I hear them at th piano downstairs. There is to be a concert in the Greville Arms on Saturday. There is a young student comes here some evenings named Bannon his cousins o something are big swells and he sings Boylan’s (I was on the pop of writin Blazes Boylan’s) song about those seaside girls. Tell him silly Milly sends m best respects. I must now close with fondest love
                    Your fond daughter
                        Milly
P. S. Excuse bad writing am in hurry. Byby. 
                        M. 
Fifteen yesterday. Curious, fifteenth of the month too. Her first birthday awa from home. Separation. Remember the summer morning she was born, running t knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille street. Jolly old woman. Lot of babies sh must have helped into the world. She knew from the first poor little Rud wouldn’t live. Well, God is good, sir. She knew at once. He would be eleven no if he had lived. 
His vacant face stared pityingly at the postscript. Excuse bad writing. Hurry. Piano downstairs. Coming out of her shell. Row with her in the XL Café abou the bracelet. Wouldn’t eat her cakes or speak or look. Saucebox. He soppe other dies of bread in the gravy and ate piece after piece of kidney. Twelv and six a week. Not much. Still, she might do worse. Music hall stage. Youn student. He drank a draught of cooler tea to wash down his meal. Then he rea the letter again: twice. 
O, well: she knows how to mind herself. But if not? No, nothing has happened. Of course it might. Wait in any case till it does. A wild piece of goods. He slim legs running up the staircase. Destiny. Ripening now. Vain: very. 
He smiled with troubled affection at the kitchen window. Day I caught her i the street pinching her cheeks to make them red. Anemic a little. Was give milk too long. On the Erin’s King that day round the Kish. Damned ol tub pitching about. Not a bit funky. Her pale blue scarf loose in the wind wit her hair. 
All dimpled cheeks and curls, Your head it simply swirls. 
Seaside girls. Torn envelope. Hands stuck in his trousers’ pockets, jarvey of for the day, singing. Friend of the family. Swurls, he says. Pier with lamps, summer evening, band. 
Those girls, those girls, Those lovely seaside girls. 
Milly too. Young kisses: the first. Far away now past. Mrs Marion. Reading, lying back now, counting the strands of her hair, smiling, braiding. 
A soft qualm, regret, flowed down his backbone, increasing. Will happen, yes. Prevent. Useless: can’t move. Girl’s sweet light lips. Will happen too. He fel the flowing qualm spread over him. Useless to move now. Lips kissed, kissing, kissed. Full gluey woman’s lips. 
Better where she is down there: away. Occupy her. Wanted a dog to pass th time. Might take a trip down there. August bank holiday, only two and si return. Six weeks off, however. Might work a press pass. Or through M’Coy. 
The cat, having cleaned all her fur, returned to the meatstained paper, nose at it and stalked to the door. She looked back at him, mewing. Wants to go out. Wait before a door sometime it will open. Let her wait. Has the fidgets. Electric. Thunder in the air. Was washing at her ear with her back to the fir too. 
He felt heavy, full: then a gentle loosening of his bowels. He stood up, undoing the waistband of his trousers. The cat mewed to him. 
—Miaow! he said in answer. Wait till I’m ready. 
Heaviness: hot day coming. Too much trouble to fag up the stairs to th landing. 
A paper. He liked to read at stool. Hope no ape comes knocking just as I’m. 
In the tabledrawer he found an old number of Titbits. He folded it unde his armpit, went to the door and opened it. The cat went up in soft bounds. Ah, wanted to go upstairs, curl up in a ball on the bed. 
Listening, he heard her voice: 
—Come, come, pussy. Come. 
He went out through the backdoor into the garden: stood to listen towards th next garden. No sound. Perhaps hanging clothes out to dry. The maid was in th garden. Fine morning. 
He bent down to regard a lean file of spearmint growing by the wall. Make  summerhouse here. Scarlet runners. Virginia creepers. Want to manure the whol place over, scabby soil. A coat of liver of sulphur. All soil like that withou dung. Household slops. Loam, what is this that is? The hens in the next garden:their droppings are very good top dressing. Best of all though are the cattle, especially when they are fed on those oilcakes. Mulch of dung. Best thing t clean ladies’ kid gloves. Dirty cleans. Ashes too. Reclaim the whole place. Grow peas in that corner there. Lettuce. Always have fresh greens then. Stil gardens have their drawbacks. That bee or bluebottle here Whitmonday. 
He walked on. Where is my hat, by the way? Must have put it back on the peg. O hanging up on the floor. Funny I don’t remember that. Hallstand too full. Fou umbrellas, her raincloak. Picking up the letters. Drago’s shopbell ringing. Queer I was just thinking that moment. Brown brillantined hair over his collar. Just had a wash and brushup. Wonder have I time for a bath this morning. Tar street. Chap in the paybox there got away James Stephens, they say. O’Brien. 
Deep voice that fellow Dlugacz has. Agendath what is it? Now, my miss. Enthusiast. 
He kicked open the crazy door of the jakes. Better be careful not to get thes trousers dirty for the funeral. He went in, bowing his head under the lo lintel. Leaving the door ajar, amid the stench of mouldy limewash and stal cobwebs he undid his braces. Before sitting down he peered through a chink u at the nextdoor windows. The king was in his countinghouse. Nobody. 
Asquat on the cuckstool he folded out his paper, turning its pages over on hi bared knees. Something new and easy. No great hurry. Keep it a bit. Our priz titbit: Matcham’s Masterstroke. Written by Mr Philip Beaufoy, Playgoers’Club, London. Payment at the rate of one guinea a column has been made to th writer. Three and a half. Three pounds three. Three pounds, thirteen and six. 
Quietly he read, restraining himself, the first column and, yielding bu resisting, began the second. Midway, his last resistance yielding, he allowe his bowels to ease themselves quietly as he read, reading still patiently tha slight constipation of yesterday quite gone. Hope it’s not too big bring o piles again. No, just right. So. Ah! Costive. One tabloid of cascara sagrada. Life might be so. It did not move or touch him but it was something quick an neat. Print anything now. Silly season. He read on, seated calm above his ow rising smell. Neat certainly. Matcham often thinks of the masterstroke b which he won the laughing witch who now. Begins and ends morally. Han in hand. Smart. He glanced back through what he had read and, while feelin his water flow quietly, he envied kindly Mr Beaufoy who had written it an received payment of three pounds, thirteen and six. 
Might manage a sketch. By Mr and Mrs L. M. Bloom. Invent a story for som proverb. Which? Time I used to try jotting down on my cuff what she sai dressing. Dislike dressing together. Nicked myself shaving. Biting her nethe lip, hooking the placket of her skirt. Timing her. 9. 15. Did Roberts pay yo yet? 9. 20. What had Gretta Conroy on? 9. 23. What possessed me to buy this comb?9. 24. I’m swelled after that cabbage. A speck of dust on the patent leather o her boot. 
Rubbing smartly in turn each welt against her stockinged calf. Morning afte the bazaar dance when May’s band played Ponchielli’s dance of the hours. Explain that: morning hours, noon, then evening coming on, then night hours. Washing her teeth. That was the first night. Her head dancing. Her fanstick clicking. Is that Boylan well off? He has money. Why? I noticed he had a goo rich smell off his breath dancing. No use humming then. Allude to it. Strang kind of music that last night. The mirror was in shadow. She rubbed he handglass briskly on her woollen vest against her full wagging bub. Peerin into it. Lines in her eyes. It wouldn’t pan out somehow. 
Evening hours, girls in grey gauze. Night hours then: black with daggers an eyemasks. Poetical idea: pink, then golden, then grey, then black. Still, tru to life also. Day: then the night. 
He tore away half the prize story sharply and wiped himself with it. Then h girded up his trousers, braced and buttoned himself. He pulled back the jerk shaky door of the jakes and came forth from the gloom into the air. 
In the bright light, lightened and cooled in limb, he eyed carefully his blac trousers: the ends, the knees, the houghs of the knees. What time is th funeral? Better find out in the paper. 
A creak and a dark whirr in the air high up. The bells of George’s church. The tolled the hour: loud dark iron. 
Heigho! Heigho!Heigho! Heigho!Heigho! Heigho! 
Quarter to. There again: the overtone following through the air. A third. 
Poor Dignam! 



By lorries along sir John Rogerson’s quay Mr Bloom walked soberly, pas Windmill lane, Leask’s the linseed crusher, the postal telegraph office. Coul have given that address too. And past the sailors’ home. He turned from th morning noises of the quayside and walked through Lime street. By Brady’ cottages a boy for the skins lolled, his bucket of offal linked, smoking  chewed fagbutt. A smaller girl with scars of eczema on her forehead eyed him, listlessly holding her battered caskhoop. Tell him if he smokes he won’t grow. O let him! His life isn’t such a bed of roses. Waiting outside pubs to bring d home. Come home to ma, da. Slack hour: won’t be many there. He crossed Townsen street, passed the frowning face of Bethel. El, yes: house of: Aleph, Beth. An past Nichols’ the undertaker. At eleven it is. Time enough. Daresay Corn Kelleher bagged the job for O’Neill’s. Singing with his eyes shut. Corny. Me her once in the park. In the dark. What a lark. Police tout. Her name an address she then told with my tooraloom tooraloom tay. O, surely he bagged it. Bury him cheap in a whatyoumaycall. With my tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom. 
In Westland row he halted before the window of the Belfast and Oriental Te Company and read the legends of leadpapered packets: choice blend, fines quality, family tea. Rather warm. Tea. Must get some from Tom Kernan. Couldn’ ask him at a funeral, though. While his eyes still read blandly he took off hi hat quietly inhaling his hairoil and sent his right hand with slow grace ove his brow and hair. Very warm morning. Under their dropped lids his eyes foun the tiny bow of the leather headband inside his high grade ha. Just there. Hi right hand came down into the bowl of his hat. His fingers found quickly a car behind the headband and transferred it to his waistcoat pocket. 
So warm. His right hand once more more slowly went over his brow and hair. The he put on his hat again, relieved: and read again: choice blend, made of th finest Ceylon brands. The far east. Lovely spot it must be: the garden of th world, big lazy leaves to float about on, cactuses, flowery meads, snaky liana they call them. Wonder is it like that. Those Cinghalese lobbing about in th sun in dolce far niente, not doing a hand’s turn all day. Sleep si months out of twelve. Too hot to quarrel. Influence of the climate. Lethargy. Flowers of idleness. The air feeds most. Azotes. Hothouse in Botanic gardens. Sensitive plants. Waterlilies. Petals too tired to. Sleeping sickness in th air. Walk on roseleaves. Imagine trying to eat tripe and cowheel. Where was th chap I saw in that picture somewhere? Ah yes, in the dead sea floating on hi back, reading a book with a parasol open. Couldn’t sink if you tried: so thic with salt. Because the weight of the water, no, the weight of the body in th water is equal to the weight of the what? Or is it the volume is equal to th weight? It’s a law something like that. Vance in High school cracking hi fingerjoints, teaching. The college curriculum. Cracking curriculum. What i weight really when you say the weight? Thirtytwo feet per second per second. Law of falling bodies: per second per second. They all fall to the ground. Th earth. It’s the force of gravity of the earth is the weight. 
He turned away and sauntered across the road. How did she walk with he sausages? Like that something. As he walked he took the folded Freema from his sidepocket, unfolded it, rolled it lengthwise in a baton and tapped i at each sauntering step against his trouserleg. Careless air: just drop in t see. Per second per second. Per second for every second it means. From th curbstone he darted a keen glance through the door of the postoffice. Too lat box. Post here. No-one. In. 
He handed the card through the brass grill. 
—Are there any letters for me? he asked. 
While the postmistress searched a pigeonhole he gazed at the recruiting poste with soldiers of all arms on parade: and held the tip of his baton against hi nostrils, smelling freshprinted rag paper. No answer probably. Went too fa last time. 
The postmistress handed him back through the grill his card with a letter. H thanked her and glanced rapidly at the typed envelope. 
Henry Flower Esq, c/o P. O. Westland Row,\n            City. 
Answered anyhow. He slipped card and letter into his sidepocket, reviewin again the soldiers on parade. Where’s old Tweedy’s regiment? Castoff soldier. There: bearskin cap and hackle plume. No, he’s a grenadier. Pointed cuffs. There he is: royal Dublin fusiliers. Redcoats. Too showy. That must be why th women go after them. Uniform. Easier to enlist and drill. Maud Gonne’s lette about taking them off O’Connell street at night: disgrace to our Irish capital. Griffith’s paper is on the same tack now: an army rotten with venereal disease:overseas or halfseasover empire. Half baked they look: hypnotised like. Eye front. Mark time. Table: able. Bed: ed. The King’s own. Never see him dresse up as a fireman or a bobby. A mason, yes. 
He strolled out of the postoffice and turned to the right. Talk: as if tha would mend matters. His hand went into his pocket and a forefinger felt its wa under the flap of the envelope, ripping it open in jerks. Women will pay a lo of heed, I don’t think. His fingers drew forth the letter the letter an crumpled the envelope in his pocket. Something pinned on: photo perhaps. Hair?No. 
M’Coy. Get rid of him quickly. Take me out of my way. Hate company when you. 
—Hello, Bloom. Where are you off to? 
—Hello, M’Coy. Nowhere in particular. 
—How’s the body? 
—Fine. How are you? 
—Just keeping alive, M’Coy said. 
His eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect: 
—Is there any... no trouble I hope? I see you’re... 
—O, no, Mr Bloom said. Poor Dignam, you know. The funeral is today. 
—To be sure, poor fellow. So it is. What time? 
A photo it isn’t. A badge maybe. 
—E... eleven, Mr Bloom answered. 
—I must try to get out there, M’Coy said. Eleven, is it? I only heard i last night. Who was telling me? Holohan. You know Hoppy? 
—I know. 
Mr Bloom gazed across the road at the outsider drawn up before the door of th Grosvenor. The porter hoisted the valise up on the well. She stood still, waiting, while the man, husband, brother, like her, searched his pockets fo change. Stylish kind of coat with that roll collar, warm for a day like this, looks like blanketcloth. Careless stand of her with her hands in those patc pockets. Like that haughty creature at the polo match. Women all for caste til you touch the spot. Handsome is and handsome does. Reserved about to yield. Th honourable Mrs and Brutus is an honourable man. Possess her once take th starch out of her. 
—I was with Bob Doran, he’s on one of his periodical bends, and what d you call him Bantam Lyons. Just down there in Conway’s we were. 
Doran Lyons in Conway’s. She raised a gloved hand to her hair. In came Hoppy. Having a wet. Drawing back his head and gazing far from beneath his vaile eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shine in the glare, the braided drums. Clearly I can see today. Moisture about gives long sight perhaps. Talking o one thing or another. Lady’s hand. Which side will she get up? 
—And he said: Sad thing about our poor friend Paddy! What Paddy?  said. Poor little Paddy Dignam, he said. 
Off to the country: Broadstone probably. High brown boots with laces dangling. Wellturned foot. What is he foostering over that change for? Sees me looking. Eye out for other fellow always. Good fallback. Two strings to her bow. 
—Why? I said. What’s wrong with him? I said. 
Proud: rich: silk stockings. 
—Yes, Mr Bloom said. 
He moved a little to the side of M’Coy’s talking head. Getting up in a minute. 
—What’s wrong with him? He said. He’s dead, he said. And, faith, he filled up. Is it Paddy Dignam? I said. I couldn’t believe i when I heard it. I was with him no later than Friday last or Thursday was it i the Arch. Yes, he said. He’s gone. He died on Monday, poo fellow. 
Watch! Watch! Silk flash rich stockings white. Watch! 
A heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between. 
Lost it. Curse your noisy pugnose. Feels locked out of it. Paradise and th peri. Always happening like that. The very moment. Girl in Eustace stree hallway Monday was it settling her garter. Her friend covering the display of. Esprit de corps. Well, what are you gaping at? 
—Yes, yes, Mr Bloom said after a dull sigh. Another gone. 
—One of the best, M’Coy said. 
The tram passed. They drove off towards the Loop Line bridge, her rich glove hand on the steel grip. Flicker, flicker: the laceflare of her hat in the sun:flicker, flick. 
—Wife well, I suppose? M’Coy’s changed voice said. 
—O, yes, Mr Bloom said. Tiptop, thanks. 
He unrolled the newspaper baton idly and read idly: 
What is home withou Plumtree’s Potted Meat?Incomplete. With it an abode of bliss. 
—My missus has just got an engagement. At least it’s not settled yet. 
Valise tack again. By the way no harm. I’m off that, thanks. 
Mr Bloom turned his largelidded eyes with unhasty friendliness. 
—My wife too, he said. She’s going to sing at a swagger affair in th Ulster Hall, Belfast, on the twentyfifth. 
—That so? M’Coy said. Glad to hear that, old man. Who’s getting it up? 
Mrs Marion Bloom. Not up yet. Queen was in her bedroom eating bread and. N book. Blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens. Dark lady and fai man. Letter. Cat furry black ball. Torn strip of envelope. 
Love’ Ol Swee Son Comes lo-ove’s old... 
—It’s a kind of a tour, don’t you see, Mr Bloom said thoughtfully. Sweeeet song. There’s a committee formed. Part shares and part profits. 
M’Coy nodded, picking at his moustache stubble. 
—O, well, he said. That’s good news. 
He moved to go. 
—Well, glad to see you looking fit, he said. Meet you knocking around. 
—Yes, Mr Bloom said. 
—Tell you what, M’Coy said. You might put down my name at the funeral, will you? I’d like to go but I mightn’t be able, you see. There’s a drownin case at Sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myself would have to g down if the body is found. You just shove in my name if I’m not there, wil you? 
—I’ll do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to get off. That’ll be all right. 
—Right, M’Coy said brightly. Thanks, old man. I’d go if I possibly could. Well, tolloll. Just C. P. M’Coy will do. 
—That will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly. 
Didn’t catch me napping that wheeze. The quick touch. Soft mark. I’d like m job. Valise I have a particular fancy for. Leather. Capped corners, rivette edges, double action lever lock. Bob Cowley lent him his for the Wicklo regatta concert last year and never heard tidings of it from that good day t this. 
Mr Bloom, strolling towards Brunswick street, smiled. My missus has just go an. Reedy freckled soprano. Cheeseparing nose. Nice enough in its way: for  little ballad. No guts in it. You and me, don’t you know: in the same boat. Softsoaping. Give you the needle that would. Can’t he hear the difference?Think he’s that way inclined a bit. Against my grain somehow. Thought tha Belfast would fetch him. I hope that smallpox up there doesn’t get worse. Suppose she wouldn’t let herself be vaccinated again. Your wife and my wife. 
Wonder is he pimping after me? 
Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering over the multicoloure hoardings. Cantrell and Cochrane’s Ginger Ale (Aromatic). Clery’s Summer Sale. No, he’s going on straight. Hello. Leah tonight. Mrs Bandmann Palmer. Like to see her again in that. Hamlet she played last night. Mal impersonator. Perhaps he was a woman. Why Ophelia committed suicide. Poor papa!How he used to talk of Kate Bateman in that. Outside the Adelphi in Londo waited all the afternoon to get in. Year before I was born that was: sixtyfive. And Ristori in Vienna. What is this the right name is? By Mosenthal it is. Rachel, is it? No. The scene he was always talking about where the old blin Abraham recognises the voice and puts his fingers on his face. 
Nathan’s voice! His son’s voice! I hear the voice of Nathan who left his fathe to die of grief and misery in my arms, who left the house of his father an left the God of his father. 
Every word is so deep, Leopold. 
Poor papa! Poor man! I’m glad I didn’t go into the room to look at his face. That day! O, dear! O, dear! Ffoo! Well, perhaps it was best for him. 
Mr Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of the hazard. N use thinking of it any more. Nosebag time. Wish I hadn’t met that M’Coy fellow. 
He came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the gently champing teeth. Their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by, amid the sweet oaten reek o horsepiss. Their Eldorado. Poor jugginses! Damn all they know or care abou anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags. Too full for words. Stil they get their feed all right and their doss. Gelded too: a stump of blac guttapercha wagging limp between their haunches. Might be happy all the sam that way. Good poor brutes they look. Still their neigh can be very irritating. 
He drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he carried. Might just walk into her here. The lane is safer. 
He passed the cabman’s shelter. Curious the life of drifting cabbies. Al weathers, all places, time or setdown, no will of their own. Voglio  non. Like to give them an odd cigarette. Sociable. Shout a few flyin syllables as they pass. He hummed: 
Là ci darem la man La la lala la la. 
He turned into Cumberland street and, going on some paces, halted in the lee o the station wall. No-one. Meade’s timberyard. Piled balks. Ruins and tenements. With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch court with its forgotte pickeystone. Not a sinner. Near the timberyard a squatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw with a cunnythumb. A wise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched from her warm sill. Pity to disturb them. Mohammed cut a piece out o his mantle not to wake her. Open it. And once I played marbles when I went t that old dame’s school. She liked mignonette. Mrs Ellis’s. And Mr? He opene the letter within the newspaper. 
A flower. I think it’s a. A yellow flower with flattened petals. Not annoye then? What does she say? 
Dear Henry
I got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it. I am sorry you di not like my last letter. Why did you enclose the stamps? I am awfully angr with you. I do wish I could punish you for that. I called you naughty bo because I do not like that other world. Please tell me what is the real meanin of that word? Are you not happy in your home you poor little naughty boy? I d wish I could do something for you. Please tell me what you think of poor me.  often think of the beautiful name you have. Dear Henry, when will we meet?  think of you so often you have no idea. I have never felt myself so much draw to a man as you. I feel so bad about. Please write me a long letter and tell m more. Remember if you do not I will punish you. So now you know what I will d to you, you naughty boy, if you do not wrote. O how I long to meet you. Henr dear, do not deny my request before my patience are exhausted. Then I will tel you all. Goodbye now, naughty darling, I have such a bad headache. today. an write by return to your longing
Martha
P. S. Do tell me what kind of perfume does your wife use. I want to know. 
He tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smell an placed it in his heart pocket. Language of flowers. They like it because no-on can hear. Or a poison bouquet to strike him down. Then walking slowly forwar he read the letter again, murmuring here and there a word. Angry tulips wit you darling manflower punish your cactus if you don’t please poor forgetmeno how I long violets to dear roses when we soon anemone meet all naught nightstalk wife Martha’s perfume. Having read it all he took it from th newspaper and put it back in his sidepocket. 
Weak joy opened his lips. Changed since the first letter. Wonder did she wrot it herself. Doing the indignant: a girl of good family like me, respectabl character. Could meet one Sunday after the rosary. Thank you: not having any. Usual love scrimmage. Then running round corners. Bad as a row with Molly. Cigar has a cooling effect. Narcotic. Go further next time. Naughty boy:punish: afraid of words, of course. Brutal, why not? Try it anyhow. A bit at  time. 
Fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it. Common pin, eh? He threw it on the road. Out of her clothes somewhere: pinned together. Queer the number of pins they always have. No roses without thorns. 
Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head. Those two sluts that night in th Coombe, linked together in the rain. 
O, Mairy lost the pin of her drawers. She didn’t know what to d To keep it up, To keep it up. 
It? Them. Such a bad headache. Has her roses probably. Or sitting all da typing. Eyefocus bad for stomach nerves. What perfume does your wife use. No could you make out a thing like that? 
To keep it up. 
Martha, Mary. I saw that picture somewhere I forget now old master or faked fo money. He is sitting in their house, talking. Mysterious. Also the two sluts i the Coombe would listen. 
To keep it up. 
Nice kind of evening feeling. No more wandering about. Just loll there: quie dusk: let everything rip. Forget. Tell about places you have been, strang customs. The other one, jar on her head, was getting the supper: fruit, olives, lovely cool water out of a well, stonecold like the hole in the wall a Ashtown. Must carry a paper goblet next time I go to the trottingmatches. Sh listens with big dark soft eyes. Tell her: more and more: all. Then a sigh:silence. Long long long rest. 
Going under the railway arch he took out the envelope, tore it swiftly i shreds and scattered them towards the road. The shreds fluttered away, sank i the dank air: a white flutter, then all sank. 
Henry Flower. You could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds in the same way. Simple bit of paper. Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure cheque for a millio in the bank of Ireland. Shows you the money to be made out of porter. Still th other brother lord Ardilaun has to change his shirt four times a day, they say. Skin breeds lice or vermin. A million pounds, wait a moment. Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart, eightpence a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence  gallon of porter. One and four into twenty: fifteen about. Yes, exactly. Fifteen millions of barrels of porter. 
What am I saying barrels? Gallons. About a million barrels all the same. 
An incoming train clanked heavily above his head, coach after coach. Barrel bumped in his head: dull porter slopped and churned inside. The bunghole sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out, flowing together, winding throug mudflats all over the level land, a lazy pooling swirl of liquor bearing alon wideleaved flowers of its froth. 
He had reached the open backdoor of All Hallows. Stepping into the porch h doffed his hat, took the card from his pocket and tucked it again behind th leather headband. Damn it. I might have tried to work M’Coy for a pass t Mullingar. 
Same notice on the door. Sermon by the very reverend John Conmee S. J. on sain Peter Claver S. J. and the African Mission. Prayers for the conversion o Gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious. The protestants are th same. Convert Dr William J. Walsh D. D. to the true religion. Save China’ millions. Wonder how they explain it to the heathen Chinee. Prefer an ounce o opium. Celestials. Rank heresy for them. Buddha their god lying on his side i the museum. Taking it easy with hand under his cheek. Josssticks burning. No like Ecce Homo. Crown of thorns and cross. Clever idea Saint Patrick th shamrock. Chopsticks? Conmee: Martin Cunningham knows him:distinguishedlooking. Sorry I didn’t work him about getting Molly into th choir instead of that Father Farley who looked a fool but wasn’t. They’r taught that. He’s not going out in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off hi to baptise blacks, is he? The glasses would take their fancy, flashing. Like t see them sitting round in a ring with blub lips, entranced, listening. Stil life. Lap it up like milk, I suppose. 
The cold smell of sacred stone called him. He trod the worn steps, pushed th swingdoor and entered softly by the rere. 
Something going on: some sodality. Pity so empty. Nice discreet place to b next some girl. Who is my neighbour? Jammed by the hour to slow music. Tha woman at midnight mass. Seventh heaven. Women knelt in the benches with crimso halters round their necks, heads bowed. A batch knelt at the altarrails. Th priest went along by them, murmuring, holding the thing in his hands. H stopped at each, took out a communion, shook a drop or two (are they in water?)off it and put it neatly into her mouth. Her hat and head sank. Then the nex one. Her hat sank at once. Then the next one: a small old woman. The pries bent down to put it into her mouth, murmuring all the time. Latin. The nex one. Shut your eyes and open your mouth. What? Corpus: body. Corpse. Good idea the Latin. Stupefies them first. Hospice for the dying. They don’ seem to chew it: only swallow it down. Rum idea: eating bits of a corpse. Wh the cannibals cotton to it. 
He stood aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one by one, an seek their places. He approached a bench and seated himself in its corner, nursing his hat and newspaper. These pots we have to wear. We ought to hav hats modelled on our heads. They were about him here and there, with head still bowed in their crimson halters, waiting for it to melt in their stomachs. Something like those mazzoth: it’s that sort of bread: unleavened shewbread. Look at them. Now I bet it makes them feel happy. Lollipop. It does. Yes, brea of angels it’s called. There’s a big idea behind it, kind of kingdom of God i within you feel. First communicants. Hokypoky penny a lump. Then feel all lik one family party, same in the theatre, all in the same swim. They do. I’m sur of that. Not so lonely. In our confraternity. Then come out a bit spreeish. Le off steam. Thing is if you really believe in it. Lourdes cure, waters o oblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding. Old fellow asleep nea that confessionbox. Hence those snores. Blind faith. Safe in the arms o kingdom come. Lulls all pain. Wake this time next year. 
He saw the priest stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneel an instan before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under the lace affair he had on. Suppose he lost the pin of his. He wouldn’t know what to do to. Bald spo behind. Letters on his back: I. N. R. I? No: I. H. S. Molly told me one time I aske her. I have sinned: or no: I have suffered, it is. And the other one? Iro nails ran in. 
Meet one Sunday after the rosary. Do not deny my request. Turn up with a vei and black bag. Dusk and the light behind her. She might be here with a ribbo round her neck and do the other thing all the same on the sly. Their character. That fellow that turned queen’s evidence on the invincibles he used to receiv the, Carey was his name, the communion every morning. This very church. Pete Carey, yes. No, Peter Claver I am thinking of. Denis Carey. And just imagin that. Wife and six children at home. And plotting that murder all the time. Those crawthumpers, now that’s a good name for them, there’s always somethin shiftylooking about them. They’re not straight men of business either. O, no, she’s not here: the flower: no, no. By the way, did I tear up that envelope?Yes: under the bridge. 
The priest was rinsing out the chalice: then he tossed off the dregs smartly. Wine. Makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drank what they ar used to Guinness’s porter or some temperance beverage Wheatley’s Dublin ho bitters or Cantrell and Cochrane’s ginger ale (aromatic). Doesn’t give them an of it: shew wine: only the other. Cold comfort. Pious fraud but quite right:otherwise they’d have one old booser worse than another coming along, cadgin for a drink. Queer the whole atmosphere of the. Quite right. Perfectly righ that is. 
Mr Bloom looked back towards the choir. Not going to be any music. Pity. Wh has the organ here I wonder? Old Glynn he knew how to make that instrumen talk, the vibrato: fifty pounds a year they say he had in Gardine street. Molly was in fine voice that day, the Stabat Mater of Rossini. Father Bernard Vaughan’s sermon first. Christ or Pilate? Christ, but don’t kee us all night over it. Music they wanted. Footdrill stopped. Could hear a pi drop. I told her to pitch her voice against that corner. I could feel th thrill in the air, the full, the people looking up: 
Quis est homo. 
Some of that old sacred music splendid. Mercadante: seven last words. Mozart’ twelfth mass: Gloria in that. Those old popes keen on music, on art an statues and pictures of all kinds. Palestrina for example too. They had a ga old time while it lasted. Healthy too, chanting, regular hours, then bre liqueurs. Benedictine. Green Chartreuse. Still, having eunuchs in their choi that was coming it a bit thick. What kind of voice is it? Must be curious t hear after their own strong basses. Connoisseurs. Suppose they wouldn’t fee anything after. Kind of a placid. No worry. Fall into flesh, don’t they?Gluttons, tall, long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it. 
He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about and bles all the people. All crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloom glanced about hi and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand up at the gospel o course. Then all settled down on their knees again and he sat back quietly i his bench. The priest came down from the altar, holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered each other in Latin. Then the priest knelt dow and began to read off a card: 
—O God, our refuge and our strength... 
Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. English. Throw them the bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass? Glorious and immaculat virgin. Joseph, her spouse. Peter and Paul. More interesting if you understoo what it was all about. Wonderful organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants to. Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. Great weapon in their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. Woman dyin to. And I schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you?Look down at her ring to find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears. Husband learn to his surprise. God’s little joke. Then out she comes. Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary and Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes. Salvation army blatan imitation. Reformed prostitute will address the meeting. How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be in Rome: they work the whole show. And don’ they rake in the money too? Bequests also: to the P. P. for the time being i his absolute discretion. Masses for the repose of my soul to be said publicl with open doors. Monasteries and convents. The priest in that Fermanagh wil case in the witnessbox. No browbeating him. He had his answer pat fo everything. Liberty and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctor of the church: they mapped out the whole theology of it. 
The priest prayed: 
—Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Be ou safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God restrain him, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly host, by the power o God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other wicked spirits wh wander through the world for the ruin of souls. 
The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. All over. The wome remained behind: thanksgiving. 
Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the plate perhaps. Pa your Easter duty. 
He stood up. Hello. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all the time?Women enjoy it. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, miss, there’s a (whh!) just  (whh!) fluff. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked. Glimpses of the moon. Annoyed if you don’t. Why didn’t you tell me before. Still like you bette untidy. Good job it wasn’t farther south. He passed, discreetly buttoning, dow the aisle and out through the main door into the light. He stood a momen unseeing by the cold black marble bowl while before him and behind tw worshippers dipped furtive hands in the low tide of holy water. Trams: a car o Prescott’s dyeworks: a widow in her weeds. Notice because I’m in mournin myself. He covered himself. How goes the time? Quarter past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion made up. Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Sweny’ in Lincoln place. Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars to heavy to stir. Hamilton Long’s, founded in the year of the flood. Hugueno churchyard near there. Visit some day. 
He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is in the othe trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey too. Bore this funeral affair. O well, poor fellow, it’s not his fault. When was it I got it made up last? Wait.  changed a sovereign I remember. First of the month it must have been or th second. O, he can look it up in the prescriptions book. 
The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell he seems t have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for the philosopher’s stone. Th alchemists. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Lethargy then. Why?Reaction. A lifetime in a night. Gradually changes your character. Living al the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All his alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid. Smell almost cure you lik the dentist’s doorbell. Doctor Whack. He ought to physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that picked an herb to cure himself ha a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to be careful. Enough stuff here to chlorofor you. Test: turns blue litmus paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts. Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs th pores or the phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever of nature. 
—About a fortnight ago, sir? 
—Yes, Mr Bloom said. 
He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the dusty dr smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot of time taken up telling your aches an pains. 
—Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and the orangeflower water... 
It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax. 
—And white wax also, he said. 
Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking at me, the sheet up to her eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my cuffs. Thos homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the teeth: nettles an rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk. Skinfood. One of the ol queen’s sons, duke of Albany was it? had only one skin. Leopold, yes. Three w have. Warts, bunions and pimples to make it worse. But you want a perfume too. What perfume does your? Peau d’Espagne. That orangeflower water is s fresh. Nice smell these soaps have. Pure curd soap. Time to get a bath roun the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage. Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nice if a nice girl did it. Also I think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curiou longing I. Water to water. Combine business with pleasure. Pity no time fo massage. Feel fresh then all the day. Funeral be rather glum. 
—Yes, sir, the chemist said. That was two and nine. Have you brought  bottle? 
—No, Mr Bloom said. Make it up, please. I’ll call later in the day an I’ll take one of these soaps. How much are they? 
—Fourpence, sir. 
Mr Bloom raised a cake to his nostrils. Sweet lemony wax. 
—I’ll take this one, he said. That makes three and a penny. 
—Yes, sir, the chemist said. You can pay all together, sir, when you com back. 
—Good, Mr Bloom said. 
He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit, th coolwrappered soap in his left hand. 
At his armpit Bantam Lyons’ voice and hand said: 
—Hello, Bloom. What’s the best news? Is that today’s? Show us a minute. 
Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. To look younger. He does look balmy. Younger than I am. 
Bantam Lyons’s yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Wants a wash too. Take off the rough dirt. Good morning, have you used Pears’ soap? Dandruff o his shoulders. Scalp wants oiling. 
—I want to see about that French horse that’s running today, Bantam Lyon said. Where the bugger is it? 
He rustled the pleated pages, jerking his chin on his high collar. Barber’ itch. Tight collar he’ll lose his hair. Better leave him the paper and get shu of him. 
—You can keep it, Mr Bloom said. 
—Ascot. Gold cup. Wait, Bantam Lyons muttered. Half a mo. Maximum th second. 
—I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said. 
Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly. 
—What’s that? his sharp voice said. 
—I say you can keep it, Mr Bloom answered. I was going to throw it awa that moment. 
Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspread sheets bac on Mr Bloom’s arms. 
—I’ll risk it, he said. Here, thanks. 
He sped off towards Conway’s corner. God speed scut. 
Mr Bloom folded the sheets again to a neat square and lodged the soap in it, smiling. Silly lips of that chap. Betting. Regular hotbed of it lately. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. Raffle for large tender turkey. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. Jack Fleming embezzling to gamble the smuggled off to America. Keeps a hotel now. They never come back. Fleshpots o Egypt. 
He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. Remind you of a mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. College sports today I see. He eyed th horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist doubled up like a co in a pot. Damn bad ad. Now if they had made it round like a wheel. Then th spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the hub big: college. Something to catc the eye. 
There’s Hornblower standing at the porter’s lodge. Keep him on hands: migh take a turn in there on the nod. How do you do, Mr Hornblower? How do you do, sir? 
Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. Cricket weather. Si around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. They can’t play it here. Duck fo six wickets. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the Kildare street clu with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in their line. And the skull we were acracking when M’Carthy took the floor. Heatwave. Won’t last. Alway passing, the stream of life, which in the stream of life we trace is deare than them all. 
Enjoy a bath now: clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle tepid stream. This is my body. 
He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his trunk and limb riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, lemonyellow: his navel, bud of flesh: and saw the dark tangled curls of his bush floating, floatin hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands, a languid floatin flower. 




 
Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking carriag and, entering deftly, seated himself. Mr Power stepped in after him, curvin his height with care. 
—Come on, Simon. 
—After you, Mr Bloom said. 
Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying: 
—Yes, yes. 
—Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom. 
Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to after hi and slammed it twice till it shut tight. He passed an arm through the armstra and looked seriously from the open carriagewindow at the lowered blinds of th avenue. One dragged aside: an old woman peeping. Nose whiteflattened agains the pane. Thanking her stars she was passed over. Extraordinary the interes they take in a corpse. Glad to see us go we give them such trouble coming. Jo seems to suit them. Huggermugger in corners. Slop about in slipperslappers fo fear he’d wake. Then getting it ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Flemin making the bed. Pull it more to your side. Our windingsheet. Never know wh will touch you dead. Wash and shampoo. I believe they clip the nails and th hair. Keep a bit in an envelope. Grows all the same after. Unclean job. 
All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths probably. I am sitting o something hard. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Better shift it out of that. Wait for an opportunity. 
All waited. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then nearer: the horses’ hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking and swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds of the avenue passe and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar. At walking pace. 
They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and were passin along the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheels rattled rollin over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook rattling in th doorframes. 
—What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows. 
—Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. Ringsend. Brunswick street. 
Mr Dedalus nodded, looking out. 
—That’s a fine old custom, he said. I am glad to see it has not died out. 
All watched awhile through their windows caps and hats lifted by passers. Respect. The carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the smoother road pas Watery lane. Mr Bloom at gaze saw a lithe young man, clad in mourning, a wid hat. 
—There’s a friend of yours gone by, Dedalus, he said. 
—Who is that? 
—Your son and heir. 
—Where is he? Mr Dedalus said, stretching over across. 
The carriage, passing the open drains and mounds of rippedup roadway before th tenement houses, lurched round the corner and, swerving back to the tramtrack, rolled on noisily with chattering wheels. Mr Dedalus fell back, saying: 
—Was that Mulligan cad with him? His fidus Achates! 
—No, Mr Bloom said. He was alone. 
—Down with his aunt Sally, I suppose, Mr Dedalus said, the Gouldin faction, the drunken little costdrawer and Crissie, papa’s little lump of dung, the wise child that knows her own father. 
Mr Bloom smiled joylessly on Ringsend road. Wallace Bros: the bottleworks:Dodder bridge. 
Richie Goulding and the legal bag. Goulding, Collis and Ward he calls the firm. His jokes are getting a bit damp. Great card he was. Waltzing in Stamer stree with Ignatius Gallaher on a Sunday morning, the landlady’s two hats pinned o his head. Out on the rampage all night. Beginning to tell on him now: tha backache of his, I fear. Wife ironing his back. Thinks he’ll cure it wit pills. All breadcrumbs they are. About six hundred per cent profit. 
—He’s in with a lowdown crowd, Mr Dedalus snarled. That Mulligan is  contaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by all accounts. His name stinks al over Dublin. But with the help of God and His blessed mother I’ll make it m business to write a letter one of those days to his mother or his aunt o whatever she is that will open her eye as wide as a gate. I’ll tickle hi catastrophe, believe you me. 
He cried above the clatter of the wheels: 
—I won’t have her bastard of a nephew ruin my son. A counterjumper’s son. Selling tapes in my cousin, Peter Paul M’Swiney’s. Not likely. 
He ceased. Mr Bloom glanced from his angry moustache to Mr Power’s mild fac and Martin Cunningham’s eyes and beard, gravely shaking. Noisy selfwilled man. Full of his son. He is right. Something to hand on. If little Rudy had lived. See him grow up. Hear his voice in the house. Walking beside Molly in an Eto suit. My son. Me in his eyes. Strange feeling it would be. From me. Just  chance. Must have been that morning in Raymond terrace she was at the windo watching the two dogs at it by the wall of the cease to do evil. And th sergeant grinning up. She had that cream gown on with the rip she neve stitched. Give us a touch, Poldy. God, I’m dying for it. How life begins. 
Got big then. Had to refuse the Greystones concert. My son inside her. I coul have helped him on in life. I could. Make him independent. Learn German too. 
—Are we late? Mr Power asked. 
—Ten minutes, Martin Cunningham said, looking at his watch. 
Molly. Milly. Same thing watered down. Her tomboy oaths. O jumping Jupiter! Y gods and little fishes! Still, she’s a dear girl. Soon be a woman. Mullingar. Dearest Papli. Young student. Yes, yes: a woman too. Life, life. 
The carriage heeled over and back, their four trunks swaying. 
—Corny might have given us a more commodious yoke, Mr Power said. 
—He might, Mr Dedalus said, if he hadn’t that squint troubling him. D you follow me? 
He closed his left eye. Martin Cunningham began to brush away crustcrumbs fro under his thighs. 
—What is this, he said, in the name of God? Crumbs? 
—Someone seems to have been making a picnic party here lately, Mr Powe said. 
All raised their thighs and eyed with disfavour the mildewed buttonless leathe of the seats. Mr Dedalus, twisting his nose, frowned downward and said: 
—Unless I’m greatly mistaken. What do you think, Martin? 
—It struck me too, Martin Cunningham said. 
Mr Bloom set his thigh down. Glad I took that bath. Feel my feet quite clean. But I wish Mrs Fleming had darned these socks better. 
Mr Dedalus sighed resignedly. 
—After all, he said, it’s the most natural thing in the world. 
—Did Tom Kernan turn up? Martin Cunningham asked, twirling the peak o his beard gently. 
—Yes, Mr Bloom answered. He’s behind with Ned Lambert and Hynes. 
—And Corny Kelleher himself? Mr Power asked. 
—At the cemetery, Martin Cunningham said. 
—I met M’Coy this morning, Mr Bloom said. He said he’d try to come. 
The carriage halted short. 
—What’s wrong? 
—We’re stopped. 
—Where are we? 
Mr Bloom put his head out of the window. 
—The grand canal, he said. 
Gasworks. Whooping cough they say it cures. Good job Milly never got it. Poo children! Doubles them up black and blue in convulsions. Shame really. Got of lightly with illnesses compared. Only measles. Flaxseed tea. Scarlatina, influenza epidemics. Canvassing for death. Don’t miss this chance. Dogs’ hom over there. Poor old Athos! Be good to Athos, Leopold, is my last wish. Th will be done. We obey them in the grave. A dying scrawl. He took it to heart, pined away. Quiet brute. Old men’s dogs usually are. 
A raindrop spat on his hat. He drew back and saw an instant of shower spra dots over the grey flags. Apart. Curious. Like through a colander. I thought i would. My boots were creaking I remember now. 
—The weather is changing, he said quietly. 
—A pity it did not keep up fine, Martin Cunningham said. 
—Wanted for the country, Mr Power said. There’s the sun again coming out. 
Mr Dedalus, peering through his glasses towards the veiled sun, hurled a mut curse at the sky. 
—It’s as uncertain as a child’s bottom, he said. 
—We’re off again. 
The carriage turned again its stiff wheels and their trunks swayed gently. Martin Cunningham twirled more quickly the peak of his beard. 
—Tom Kernan was immense last night, he said. And Paddy Leonard taking hi off to his face. 
—O, draw him out, Martin, Mr Power said eagerly. Wait till you hear him, Simon, on Ben Dollard’s singing of The Croppy Boy. 
—Immense, Martin Cunningham said pompously. His singing of that simpl ballad, Martin, is the most trenchant rendering I ever heard in the whol course of my experience. 
—Trenchant, Mr Power said laughing. He’s dead nuts on that. And th retrospective arrangement. 
—Did you read Dan Dawson’s speech? Martin Cunningham asked. 
—I did not then, Mr Dedalus said. Where is it? 
—In the paper this morning. 
Mr Bloom took the paper from his inside pocket. That book I must change fo her. 
—No, no, Mr Dedalus said quickly. Later on please. 
Mr Bloom’s glance travelled down the edge of the paper, scanning the deaths:Callan, Coleman, Dignam, Fawcett, Lowry, Naumann, Peake, what Peake is that? i it the chap was in Crosbie and Alleyne’s? no, Sexton, Urbright. Inke characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper. Thanks to the Littl Flower. Sadly missed. To the inexpressible grief of his. Aged 88 after a lon and tedious illness. Month’s mind: Quinlan. On whose soul Sweet Jesus hav mercy. 
It is now a month since dear Henry fle To his home up above in the sk While his family weeps and mourns his los Hoping some day to meet him on high. 
I tore up the envelope? Yes. Where did I put her letter after I read it in th bath? He patted his waistcoatpocket. There all right. Dear Henry fled. Befor my patience are exhausted. 
National school. Meade’s yard. The hazard. Only two there now. Nodding. Full a a tick. Too much bone in their skulls. The other trotting round with a fare. A hour ago I was passing there. The jarvies raised their hats. 
A pointsman’s back straightened itself upright suddenly against a tramwa standard by Mr Bloom’s window. Couldn’t they invent something automatic so tha the wheel itself much handier? Well but that fellow would lose his job then?Well but then another fellow would get a job making the new invention? 
Antient concert rooms. Nothing on there. A man in a buff suit with a crap armlet. Not much grief there. Quarter mourning. People in law perhaps. 
They went past the bleak pulpit of saint Mark’s, under the railway bridge, pas the Queen’s theatre: in silence. Hoardings: Eugene Stratton, Mrs Bandman Palmer. Could I go to see Leah tonight, I wonder. I said I. Or th Lily of Killarney? Elster Grimes Opera Company. Big powerful change. We bright bills for next week. Fun on the Bristol. Martin Cunningham coul work a pass for the Gaiety. Have to stand a drink or two. As broad as it’ long. 
He’s coming in the afternoon. Her songs. 
Plasto’s. Sir Philip Crampton’s memorial fountain bust. Who was he? 
—How do you do? Martin Cunningham said, raising his palm to his brow i salute. 
—He doesn’t see us, Mr Power said. Yes, he does. How do you do? 
—Who? Mr Dedalus asked. 
—Blazes Boylan, Mr Power said. There he is airing his quiff. 
Just that moment I was thinking. 
Mr Dedalus bent across to salute. From the door of the Red Bank the white dis of a straw hat flashed reply: spruce figure: passed. 
Mr Bloom reviewed the nails of his left hand, then those of his right hand. Th nails, yes. Is there anything more in him that they she sees? Fascination. Worst man in Dublin. That keeps him alive. They sometimes feel what a perso is. Instinct. But a type like that. My nails. I am just looking at them: wel pared. And after: thinking alone. Body getting a bit softy. I would notic that: from remembering. What causes that? I suppose the skin can’t contrac quickly enough when the flesh falls off. But the shape is there. The shape i there still. Shoulders. Hips. Plump. Night of the dance dressing. Shift stuc between the cheeks behind. 
He clasped his hands between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacant glanc over their faces. 
Mr Power asked: 
—How is the concert tour getting on, Bloom? 
—O, very well, Mr Bloom said. I hear great accounts of it. It’s a goo idea, you see... 
—Are you going yourself? 
—Well no, Mr Bloom said. In point of fact I have to go down to the count Clare on some private business. You see the idea is to tour the chief towns. What you lose on one you can make up on the other. 
—Quite so, Martin Cunningham said. Mary Anderson is up there now. 
Have you good artists? 
—Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said. O yes, we’ll have al topnobbers. J. C. Doyle and John MacCormack I hope and. The best, in fact. 
—And Madame, Mr Power said smiling. Last but not least. 
Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft politeness and clasped them. Smith O’Brien. Someone has laid a bunch of flowers there. Woman. Must be hi deathday. For many happy returns. The carriage wheeling by Farrell’s statu united noiselessly their unresisting knees. 
Oot: a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares, his mout opening: oot. 
—Four bootlaces for a penny. 
Wonder why he was struck off the rolls. Had his office in Hume street. Sam house as Molly’s namesake, Tweedy, crown solicitor for Waterford. Has that sil hat ever since. Relics of old decency. Mourning too. Terrible comedown, poo wretch! Kicked about like snuff at a wake. O’Callaghan on his last legs. 
And Madame. Twenty past eleven. Up. Mrs Fleming is in to clean. Doin her hair, humming: voglio e non vorrei. No: vorrei e non. Lookin at the tips of her hairs to see if they are split. Mi trema un poco il. Beautiful on that tre her voice is: weeping tone. A thrush. A throstle. There is a word throstle that expresses that. 
His eyes passed lightly over Mr Power’s goodlooking face. Greyish over th ears. Madame: smiling. I smiled back. A smile goes a long way. Onl politeness perhaps. Nice fellow. Who knows is that true about the woman h keeps? Not pleasant for the wife. Yet they say, who was it told me, there is n carnal. You would imagine that would get played out pretty quick. Yes, it wa Crofton met him one evening bringing her a pound of rumpsteak. What is this sh was? Barmaid in Jury’s. Or the Moira, was it? 
They passed under the hugecloaked Liberator’s form. 
Martin Cunningham nudged Mr Power. 
—Of the tribe of Reuben, he said. 
A tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the corner o Elvery’s Elephant house, showed them a curved hand open on his spine. 
—In all his pristine beauty, Mr Power said. 
Mr Dedalus looked after the stumping figure and said mildly: 
—The devil break the hasp of your back! 
Mr Power, collapsing in laughter, shaded his face from the window as th carriage passed Gray’s statue. 
—We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly. 
His eyes met Mr Bloom’s eyes. He caressed his beard, adding: 
—Well, nearly all of us. 
Mr Bloom began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions’ faces. 
—That’s an awfully good one that’s going the rounds about Reuben J an the son. 
—About the boatman? Mr Power asked. 
—Yes. Isn’t it awfully good? 
—What is that? Mr Dedalus asked. I didn’t hear it. 
—There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom began, and he determined to sen him to the Isle of Man out of harm’s way but when they were both..... 
—What? Mr Dedalus asked. That confirmed bloody hobbledehoy is it? 
—Yes, Mr Bloom said. They were both on the way to the boat and he trie to drown..... 
—Drown Barabbas! Mr Dedalus cried. I wish to Christ he did! 
Mr Power sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils. 
—No, Mr Bloom said, the son himself..... 
Martin Cunningham thwarted his speech rudely: 
—Reuben J and the son were piking it down the quay next the river o their way to the Isle of Man boat and the young chiseller suddenly got loos and over the wall with him into the Liffey. 
—For God’s sake! Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright. Is he dead? 
—Dead! Martin Cunningham cried. Not he! A boatman got a pole and fishe him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to the father on th quay more dead than alive. Half the town was there. 
—Yes, Mr Bloom said. But the funny part is..... 
—And Reuben J, Martin Cunningham said, gave the boatman a florin fo saving his son’s life. 
A stifled sigh came from under Mr Power’s hand. 
—O, he did, Martin Cunningham affirmed. Like a hero. A silver florin. 
—Isn’t it awfully good? Mr Bloom said eagerly. 
—One and eightpence too much, Mr Dedalus said drily. 
Mr Power’s choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage. 
Nelson’s pillar. 
—Eight plums a penny! Eight for a penny! 
—We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said. 
Mr Dedalus sighed. 
—Ah then indeed, he said, poor little Paddy wouldn’t grudge us a laugh. Many a good one he told himself. 
—The Lord forgive me! Mr Power said, wiping his wet eyes with hi fingers. Poor Paddy! I little thought a week ago when I saw him last and he wa in his usual health that I’d be driving after him like this. He’s gone from us. 
—As decent a little man as ever wore a hat, Mr Dedalus said. He went ver suddenly. 
—Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said. Heart. 
He tapped his chest sadly. 
Blazing face: redhot. Too much John Barleycorn. Cure for a red nose. Drink lik the devil till it turns adelite. A lot of money he spent colouring it. 
Mr Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension. 
—He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said. 
—The best death, Mr Bloom said. 
Their wide open eyes looked at him. 
—No suffering, he said. A moment and all is over. Like dying in sleep. 
No-one spoke. 
Dead side of the street this. Dull business by day, land agents, temperanc hotel, Falconer’s railway guide, civil service college, Gill’s, catholic club, the industrious blind. Why? Some reason. Sun or wind. At night too. Chummie and slaveys. Under the patronage of the late Father Mathew. Foundation ston for Parnell. Breakdown. Heart. 
White horses with white frontlet plumes came round the Rotunda corner, galloping. A tiny coffin flashed by. In a hurry to bury. A mourning coach. Unmarried. Black for the married. Piebald for bachelors. Dun for a nun. 
—Sad, Martin Cunningham said. A child. 
A dwarf’s face, mauve and wrinkled like little Rudy’s was. Dwarf’s body, wea as putty, in a whitelined deal box. Burial friendly society pays. Penny a wee for a sod of turf. Our. Little. Beggar. Baby. Meant nothing. Mistake of nature. If it’s healthy it’s from the mother. If not from the man. Better luck nex time. 
—Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said. It’s well out of it. 
The carriage climbed more slowly the hill of Rutland square. Rattle his bones. Over the stones. Only a pauper. Nobody owns. 
—In the midst of life, Martin Cunningham said. 
—But the worst of all, Mr Power said, is the man who takes his own life. 
Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put it back. 
—The greatest disgrace to have in the family, Mr Power added. 
—Temporary insanity, of course, Martin Cunningham said decisively. W must take a charitable view of it. 
—They say a man who does it is a coward, Mr Dedalus said. 
—It is not for us to judge, Martin Cunningham said. 
Mr Bloom, about to speak, closed his lips again. Martin Cunningham’s larg eyes. Looking away now. Sympathetic human man he is. Intelligent. Lik Shakespeare’s face. Always a good word to say. They have no mercy on that her or infanticide. Refuse christian burial. They used to drive a stake of woo through his heart in the grave. As if it wasn’t broken already. Yet sometime they repent too late. Found in the riverbed clutching rushes. He looked at me. And that awful drunkard of a wife of his. Setting up house for her time afte time and then pawning the furniture on him every Saturday almost. Leading hi the life of the damned. Wear the heart out of a stone, that. Monday morning. Start afresh. Shoulder to the wheel. Lord, she must have looked a sight tha night Dedalus told me he was in there. Drunk about the place and capering wit Martin’s umbrella. 
And they call me the jewel of Asia, Of Asia, The geisha. 
He looked away from me. He knows. Rattle his bones. 
That afternoon of the inquest. The redlabelled bottle on the table. The room i the hotel with hunting pictures. Stuffy it was. Sunlight through the slats o the Venetian blind. The coroner’s sunlit ears, big and hairy. Boots givin evidence. Thought he was asleep first. Then saw like yellow streaks on hi face. Had slipped down to the foot of the bed. Verdict: overdose. Death b misadventure. The letter. For my son Leopold. 
No more pain. Wake no more. Nobody owns. 
The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington street. Over the stones. 
—We are going the pace, I think, Martin Cunningham said. 
—God grant he doesn’t upset us on the road, Mr Power said. 
—I hope not, Martin Cunningham said. That will be a great race tomorro in Germany. The Gordon Bennett. 
—Yes, by Jove, Mr Dedalus said. That will be worth seeing, faith. 
As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the Basin sent over an after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls. Has anybody here see Kelly? Kay ee double ell wy. Dead March from Saul. He’s as bad as ol Antonio. He left me on my ownio. Pirouette! The Mater Misericordiae. Eccles street. My house down there. Big place. Ward for incurables there. Ver encouraging. Our Lady’s Hospice for the dying. Deadhouse handy underneath. Where old Mrs Riordan died. They look terrible the women. Her feeding cup an rubbing her mouth with the spoon. Then the screen round her bed for her to die. Nice young student that was dressed that bite the bee gave me. He’s gone ove to the lying-in hospital they told me. From one extreme to the other. 
The carriage galloped round a corner: stopped. 
—What’s wrong now? 
A divided drove of branded cattle passed the windows, lowing, slouching by o padded hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clotted bony croups. Outsid them and through them ran raddled sheep bleating their fear. 
—Emigrants, Mr Power said. 
—Huuuh! the drover’s voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks. Huuuh! out of that! 
Thursday, of course. Tomorrow is killing day. Springers. Cuffe sold them abou twentyseven quid each. For Liverpool probably. Roastbeef for old England. The buy up all the juicy ones. And then the fifth quarter lost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns. Comes to a big thing in a year. Dead meat trade. Byproduct of the slaughterhouses for tanneries, soap, margarine. Wonder if that dodg works now getting dicky meat off the train at Clonsilla. 
The carriage moved on through the drove. 
—I can’t make out why the corporation doesn’t run a tramline from th parkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said. All those animals could be taken i trucks down to the boats. 
—Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said. Quit right. They ought to. 
—Yes, Mr Bloom said, and another thing I often thought, is to hav municipal funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know. Run the line out t the cemetery gates and have special trams, hearse and carriage and all. Don’ you see what I mean? 
—O, that be damned for a story, Mr Dedalus said. Pullman car and saloo diningroom. 
—A poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added. 
—Why? Mr Bloom asked, turning to Mr Dedalus. Wouldn’t it be more decen than galloping two abreast? 
—Well, there’s something in that, Mr Dedalus granted. 
—And, Martin Cunningham said, we wouldn’t have scenes like that when th hearse capsized round Dunphy’s and upset the coffin on to the road. 
—That was terrible, Mr Power’s shocked face said, and the corpse fel about the road. Terrible! 
—First round Dunphy’s, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Gordon Bennett cup. 
—Praises be to God! Martin Cunningham said piously. 
Bom! Upset. A coffin bumped out on to the road. Burst open. Paddy Dignam sho out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit too large for him. Re face: grey now. Mouth fallen open. Asking what’s up now. Quite right to clos it. Looks horrid open. Then the insides decompose quickly. Much better to clos up all the orifices. Yes, also. With wax. The sphincter loose. Seal up all. 
—Dunphy’s, Mr Power announced as the carriage turned right. 
Dunphy’s corner. Mourning coaches drawn up, drowning their grief. A pause b the wayside. Tiptop position for a pub. Expect we’ll pull up here on the wa back to drink his health. Pass round the consolation. Elixir of life. 
But suppose now it did happen. Would he bleed if a nail say cut him in th knocking about? He would and he wouldn’t, I suppose. Depends on where. Th circulation stops. Still some might ooze out of an artery. It would be bette to bury them in red: a dark red. 
In silence they drove along Phibsborough road. An empty hearse trotted by, coming from the cemetery: looks relieved. 
Crossguns bridge: the royal canal. 
Water rushed roaring through the sluices. A man stood on his dropping barge, between clamps of turf. On the towpath by the lock a slacktethered horse. Aboard of the Bugabu. 
Their eyes watched him. On the slow weedy waterway he had floated on his raf coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds of reeds, over slime, mudchoked bottles, carrion dogs. Athlone, Mullingar, Moyvalley, I could make  walking tour to see Milly by the canal. Or cycle down. Hire some old crock, safety. Wren had one the other day at the auction but a lady’s. Developin waterways. James M’Cann’s hobby to row me o’er the ferry. Cheaper transit. B easy stages. Houseboats. Camping out. Also hearses. To heaven by water. Perhap I will without writing. Come as a surprise, Leixlip, Clonsilla. Dropping dow lock by lock to Dublin. With turf from the midland bogs. Salute. He lifted hi brown straw hat, saluting Paddy Dignam. 
They drove on past Brian Boroimhe house. Near it now. 
—I wonder how is our friend Fogarty getting on, Mr Power said. 
—Better ask Tom Kernan, Mr Dedalus said. 
—How is that? Martin Cunningham said. Left him weeping, I suppose? 
—Though lost to sight, Mr Dedalus said, to memory dear. 
The carriage steered left for Finglas road. 
The stonecutter’s yard on the right. Last lap. Crowded on the spit of lan silent shapes appeared, white, sorrowful, holding out calm hands, knelt i grief, pointing. Fragments of shapes, hewn. In white silence: appealing. Th best obtainable. Thos. H. Dennany, monumental builder and sculptor. 
Passed. 
On the curbstone before Jimmy Geary, the sexton’s, an old tramp sat, grumbling, emptying the dirt and stones out of his huge dustbrown yawning boot. Afte life’s journey. 
Gloomy gardens then went by: one by one: gloomy houses. 
Mr Power pointed. 
—That is where Childs was murdered, he said. The last house. 
—So it is, Mr Dedalus said. A gruesome case. Seymour Bushe got him off. Murdered his brother. Or so they said. 
—The crown had no evidence, Mr Power said. 
—Only circumstantial, Martin Cunningham added. That’s the maxim of th law. Better for ninetynine guilty to escape than for one innocent person to b wrongfully condemned. 
They looked. Murderer’s ground. It passed darkly. Shuttered, tenantless, unweeded garden. Whole place gone to hell. Wrongfully condemned. Murder. Th murderer’s image in the eye of the murdered. They love reading about it. Man’ head found in a garden. Her clothing consisted of. How she met her death. Recent outrage. The weapon used. Murderer is still at large. Clues. A shoelace. The body to be exhumed. Murder will out. 
Cramped in this carriage. She mightn’t like me to come that way without lettin her know. Must be careful about women. Catch them once with their pants down. Never forgive you after. Fifteen. 
The high railings of Prospect rippled past their gaze. Dark poplars, rare whit forms. Forms more frequent, white shapes thronged amid the trees, white form and fragments streaming by mutely, sustaining vain gestures on the air. 
The felly harshed against the curbstone: stopped. Martin Cunningham put out hi arm and, wrenching back the handle, shoved the door open with his knee. H stepped out. Mr Power and Mr Dedalus followed. 
Change that soap now. Mr Bloom’s hand unbuttoned his hip pocket swiftly an transferred the paperstuck soap to his inner handkerchief pocket. He steppe out of the carriage, replacing the newspaper his other hand still held. 
Paltry funeral: coach and three carriages. It’s all the same. Pallbearers, gol reins, requiem mass, firing a volley. Pomp of death. Beyond the hind carriage  hawker stood by his barrow of cakes and fruit. Simnel cakes those are, stuc together: cakes for the dead. Dogbiscuits. Who ate them? Mourners coming out. 
He followed his companions. Mr Kernan and Ned Lambert followed, Hynes walkin after them. Corny Kelleher stood by the opened hearse and took out the tw wreaths. He handed one to the boy. 
Where is that child’s funeral disappeared to? 
A team of horses passed from Finglas with toiling plodding tread, draggin through the funereal silence a creaking waggon on which lay a granite block. The waggoner marching at their head saluted. 
Coffin now. Got here before us, dead as he is. Horse looking round at it wit his plume skeowways. Dull eye: collar tight on his neck, pressing on  bloodvessel or something. Do they know what they cart out here every day? Mus be twenty or thirty funerals every day. Then Mount Jerome for the protestants. Funerals all over the world everywhere every minute. Shovelling them under b the cartload doublequick. Thousands every hour. Too many in the world. 
Mourners came out through the gates: woman and a girl. Leanjawed harpy, har woman at a bargain, her bonnet awry. Girl’s face stained with dirt and tears, holding the woman’s arm, looking up at her for a sign to cry. Fish’s face, bloodless and livid. 
The mutes shouldered the coffin and bore it in through the gates. So much dea weight. Felt heavier myself stepping out of that bath. First the stiff: the the friends of the stiff. Corny Kelleher and the boy followed with thei wreaths. Who is that beside them? Ah, the brother-in-law. 
All walked after. 
Martin Cunningham whispered: 
—I was in mortal agony with you talking of suicide before Bloom. 
—What? Mr Power whispered. How so? 
—His father poisoned himself, Martin Cunningham whispered. Had th Queen’s hotel in Ennis. You heard him say he was going to Clare. Anniversary. 
—O God! Mr Power whispered. First I heard of it. Poisoned himself? 
He glanced behind him to where a face with dark thinking eyes followed toward the cardinal’s mausoleum. Speaking. 
—Was he insured? Mr Bloom asked. 
—I believe so, Mr Kernan answered. But the policy was heavily mortgaged. Martin is trying to get the youngster into Artane. 
—How many children did he leave? 
—Five. Ned Lambert says he’ll try to get one of the girls into Todd’s. 
—A sad case, Mr Bloom said gently. Five young children. 
—A great blow to the poor wife, Mr Kernan added. 
—Indeed yes, Mr Bloom agreed. 
Has the laugh at him now. 
He looked down at the boots he had blacked and polished. She had outlived him. Lost her husband. More dead for her than for me. One must outlive the other. Wise men say. There are more women than men in the world. Condole with her. Your terrible loss. I hope you’ll soon follow him. For Hindu widows only. Sh would marry another. Him? No. Yet who knows after. Widowhood not the thin since the old queen died. Drawn on a guncarriage. Victoria and Albert. Frogmor memorial mourning. But in the end she put a few violets in her bonnet. Vain i her heart of hearts. All for a shadow. Consort not even a king. Her son was th substance. Something new to hope for not like the past she wanted back, waiting. It never comes. One must go first: alone, under the ground: and lie n more in her warm bed. 
—How are you, Simon? Ned Lambert said softly, clasping hands. Haven’ seen you for a month of Sundays. 
—Never better. How are all in Cork’s own town? 
—I was down there for the Cork park races on Easter Monday, Ned Lamber said. Same old six and eightpence. Stopped with Dick Tivy. 
—And how is Dick, the solid man? 
—Nothing between himself and heaven, Ned Lambert answered. 
—By the holy Paul! Mr Dedalus said in subdued wonder. Dick Tivy bald? 
—Martin is going to get up a whip for the youngsters, Ned Lambert said, pointing ahead. A few bob a skull. Just to keep them going till the insuranc is cleared up. 
—Yes, yes, Mr Dedalus said dubiously. Is that the eldest boy in front? 
—Yes, Ned Lambert said, with the wife’s brother. John Henry Menton i behind. He put down his name for a quid. 
—I’ll engage he did, Mr Dedalus said. I often told poor Paddy he ought t mind that job. John Henry is not the worst in the world. 
—How did he lose it? Ned Lambert asked. Liquor, what? 
—Many a good man’s fault, Mr Dedalus said with a sigh. 
They halted about the door of the mortuary chapel. Mr Bloom stood behind th boy with the wreath looking down at his sleekcombed hair and at the slende furrowed neck inside his brandnew collar. Poor boy! Was he there when th father? Both unconscious. Lighten up at the last moment and recognise for th last time. All he might have done. I owe three shillings to O’Grady. Would h understand? The mutes bore the coffin into the chapel. Which end is his head? 
After a moment he followed the others in, blinking in the screened light. Th coffin lay on its bier before the chancel, four tall yellow candles at it corners. Always in front of us. Corny Kelleher, laying a wreath at each for corner, beckoned to the boy to kneel. The mourners knelt here and there i prayingdesks. Mr Bloom stood behind near the font and, when all had knelt, dropped carefully his unfolded newspaper from his pocket and knelt his righ knee upon it. He fitted his black hat gently on his left knee and, holding it brim, bent over piously. 
A server bearing a brass bucket with something in it came out through a door. The whitesmocked priest came after him, tidying his stole with one hand, balancing with the other a little book against his toad’s belly. Who’ll rea the book? I, said the rook. 
They halted by the bier and the priest began to read out of his book with  fluent croak. 
Father Coffey. I knew his name was like a coffin. Dominenamine. Bull about the muzzle he looks. Bosses the show. Muscular christian. Woe betid anyone that looks crooked at him: priest. Thou art Peter. Burst sideways like  sheep in clover Dedalus says he will. With a belly on him like a poisoned pup. Most amusing expressions that man finds. Hhhn: burst sideways. 
—Non intres in judicium cum servo tuo, Domine. 
Makes them feel more important to be prayed over in Latin. Requiem mass. Crap weepers. Blackedged notepaper. Your name on the altarlist. Chilly place this. Want to feed well, sitting in there all the morning in the gloom kicking hi heels waiting for the next please. Eyes of a toad too. What swells him up tha way? Molly gets swelled after cabbage. Air of the place maybe. Looks full up o bad gas. Must be an infernal lot of bad gas round the place. Butchers, fo instance: they get like raw beefsteaks. Who was telling me? Mervyn Browne. Dow in the vaults of saint Werburgh’s lovely old organ hundred and fifty they hav to bore a hole in the coffins sometimes to let out the bad gas and burn it. Ou it rushes: blue. One whiff of that and you’re a goner. 
My kneecap is hurting me. Ow. That’s better. 
The priest took a stick with a knob at the end of it out of the boy’s bucke and shook it over the coffin. Then he walked to the other end and shook i again. Then he came back and put it back in the bucket. As you were before yo rested. It’s all written down: he has to do it. 
—Et ne nos inducas in tentationem. 
The server piped the answers in the treble. I often thought it would be bette to have boy servants. Up to fifteen or so. After that, of course ... 
Holy water that was, I expect. Shaking sleep out of it. He must be fed up wit that job, shaking that thing over all the corpses they trot up. What harm if h could see what he was shaking it over. Every mortal day a fresh batch:middleaged men, old women, children, women dead in childbirth, men with beards, baldheaded businessmen, consumptive girls with little sparrows’ breasts. Al the year round he prayed the same thing over them all and shook water on top o them: sleep. On Dignam now. 
—In paradisum. 
Said he was going to paradise or is in paradise. Says that over everybody. Tiresome kind of a job. But he has to say something. 
The priest closed his book and went off, followed by the server. Corny Kellehe opened the sidedoors and the gravediggers came in, hoisted the coffin again, carried it out and shoved it on their cart. Corny Kelleher gave one wreath t the boy and one to the brother-in-law. All followed them out of the sidedoor into the mild grey air. Mr Bloom came last folding his paper again into hi pocket. He gazed gravely at the ground till the coffincart wheeled off to th left. The metal wheels ground the gravel with a sharp grating cry and the pac of blunt boots followed the trundled barrow along a lane of sepulchres. 
The ree the ra the ree the ra the roo. Lord, I mustn’t lilt here. 
—The O’Connell circle, Mr Dedalus said about him. 
Mr Power’s soft eyes went up to the apex of the lofty cone. 
—He’s at rest, he said, in the middle of his people, old Dan O’. But hi heart is buried in Rome. How many broken hearts are buried here, Simon! 
—Her grave is over there, Jack, Mr Dedalus said. I’ll soon be stretche beside her. Let Him take me whenever He likes. 
Breaking down, he began to weep to himself quietly, stumbling a little in hi walk. Mr Power took his arm. 
—She’s better where she is, he said kindly. 
—I suppose so, Mr Dedalus said with a weak gasp. I suppose she is i heaven if there is a heaven. 
Corny Kelleher stepped aside from his rank and allowed the mourners to plod by. 
—Sad occasions, Mr Kernan began politely. 
Mr Bloom closed his eyes and sadly twice bowed his head. 
—The others are putting on their hats, Mr Kernan said. I suppose we ca do so too. We are the last. This cemetery is a treacherous place. 
They covered their heads. 
—The reverend gentleman read the service too quickly, don’t you think? M Kernan said with reproof. 
Mr Bloom nodded gravely looking in the quick bloodshot eyes. Secret eyes, secretsearching. Mason, I think: not sure. Beside him again. We are the last. In the same boat. Hope he’ll say something else. 
Mr Kernan added: 
—The service of the Irish church used in Mount Jerome is simpler, mor impressive I must say. 
Mr Bloom gave prudent assent. The language of course was another thing. 
Mr Kernan said with solemnity: 
—I am the resurrection and the life. That touches a man’s inmos heart. 
—It does, Mr Bloom said. 
Your heart perhaps but what price the fellow in the six feet by two with hi toes to the daisies? No touching that. Seat of the affections. Broken heart.  pump after all, pumping thousands of gallons of blood every day. One fine da it gets bunged up: and there you are. Lots of them lying around here: lungs, hearts, livers. Old rusty pumps: damn the thing else. The resurrection and th life. Once you are dead you are dead. That last day idea. Knocking them all u out of their graves. Come forth, Lazarus! And he came fifth and lost the job. Get up! Last day! Then every fellow mousing around for his liver and his light and the rest of his traps. Find damn all of himself that morning. Pennyweigh of powder in a skull. Twelve grammes one pennyweight. Troy measure. 
Corny Kelleher fell into step at their side. 
—Everything went off A1, he said. What? 
He looked on them from his drawling eye. Policeman’s shoulders. With you tooraloom tooraloom. 
—As it should be, Mr Kernan said. 
—What? Eh? Corny Kelleher said. 
Mr Kernan assured him. 
—Who is that chap behind with Tom Kernan? John Henry Menton asked. I kno his face. 
Ned Lambert glanced back. 
—Bloom, he said, Madame Marion Tweedy that was, is, I mean, the soprano. She’s his wife. 
—O, to be sure, John Henry Menton said. I haven’t seen her for some time. She was a finelooking woman. I danced with her, wait, fifteen seventeen golde years ago, at Mat Dillon’s in Roundtown. And a good armful she was. 
He looked behind through the others. 
—What is he? he asked. What does he do? Wasn’t he in the stationery line?I fell foul of him one evening, I remember, at bowls. 
Ned Lambert smiled. 
—Yes, he was, he said, in Wisdom Hely’s. A traveller for blottingpaper. 
—In God’s name, John Henry Menton said, what did she marry a coon lik that for? She had plenty of game in her then. 
—Has still, Ned Lambert said. He does some canvassing for ads. 
John Henry Menton’s large eyes stared ahead. 
The barrow turned into a side lane. A portly man, ambushed among the grasses, raised his hat in homage. The gravediggers touched their caps. 
—John O’Connell, Mr Power said pleased. He never forgets a friend. 
Mr O’Connell shook all their hands in silence. Mr Dedalus said: 
—I am come to pay you another visit. 
—My dear Simon, the caretaker answered in a low voice. I don’t want you custom at all. 
Saluting Ned Lambert and John Henry Menton he walked on at Martin Cunningham’ side puzzling two long keys at his back. 
—Did you hear that one, he asked them, about Mulcahy from the Coombe? 
—I did not, Martin Cunningham said. 
They bent their silk hats in concert and Hynes inclined his ear. The caretake hung his thumbs in the loops of his gold watchchain and spoke in a discree tone to their vacant smiles. 
—They tell the story, he said, that two drunks came out here one fogg evening to look for the grave of a friend of theirs. They asked for Mulcah from the Coombe and were told where he was buried. After traipsing about in th fog they found the grave sure enough. One of the drunks spelt out the name:Terence Mulcahy. The other drunk was blinking up at a statue of Our Saviour th widow had got put up. 
The caretaker blinked up at one of the sepulchres they passed. He resumed: 
—And, after blinking up at the sacred figure, Not a bloody bit lik the man, says he. That’s not Mulcahy, says he, whoever don it. 
Rewarded by smiles he fell back and spoke with Corny Kelleher, accepting th dockets given him, turning them over and scanning them as he walked. 
—That’s all done with a purpose, Martin Cunningham explained to Hynes. 
—I know, Hynes said. I know that. 
—To cheer a fellow up, Martin Cunningham said. It’s pure goodheartedness:damn the thing else. 
Mr Bloom admired the caretaker’s prosperous bulk. All want to be on good term with him. Decent fellow, John O’Connell, real good sort. Keys: like Keyes’s ad:no fear of anyone getting out. No passout checks. Habeas corpus. I mus see about that ad after the funeral. Did I write Ballsbridge on the envelope  took to cover when she disturbed me writing to Martha? Hope it’s not chucked i the dead letter office. Be the better of a shave. Grey sprouting beard. That’ the first sign when the hairs come out grey. And temper getting cross. Silve threads among the grey. Fancy being his wife. Wonder he had the gumption t propose to any girl. Come out and live in the graveyard. Dangle that befor her. It might thrill her first. Courting death. Shades of night hovering her with all the dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyard yawn and Daniel O’Connell must be a descendant I suppose who is this used t say he was a queer breedy man great catholic all the same like a big giant i the dark. Will o’ the wisp. Gas of graves. Want to keep her mind off it t conceive at all. Women especially are so touchy. Tell her a ghost story in be to make her sleep. Have you ever seen a ghost? Well, I have. It was a pitchdar night. The clock was on the stroke of twelve. Still they’d kiss all right i properly keyed up. Whores in Turkish graveyards. Learn anything if taken young. You might pick up a young widow here. Men like that. Love among the tombstones. Romeo. Spice of pleasure. In the midst of death we are in life. Both ends meet. Tantalising for the poor dead. Smell of grilled beefsteaks to the starving. Gnawing their vitals. Desire to grig people. Molly wanting to do it at th window. Eight children he has anyway. 
He has seen a fair share go under in his time, lying around him field afte field. Holy fields. More room if they buried them standing. Sitting or kneelin you couldn’t. Standing? His head might come up some day above ground in  landslip with his hand pointing. All honeycombed the ground must be: oblon cells. And very neat he keeps it too: trim grass and edgings. His garden Majo Gamble calls Mount Jerome. Well, so it is. Ought to be flowers of sleep. Chinese cemeteries with giant poppies growing produce the best opium Mastiansk told me. The Botanic Gardens are just over there. It’s the blood sinking in th earth gives new life. Same idea those jews they said killed the christian boy. Every man his price. Well preserved fat corpse, gentleman, epicure, invaluabl for fruit garden. A bargain. By carcass of William Wilkinson, auditor an accountant, lately deceased, three pounds thirteen and six. With thanks. 
I daresay the soil would be quite fat with corpsemanure, bones, flesh, nails. Charnelhouses. Dreadful. Turning green and pink decomposing. Rot quick in dam earth. The lean old ones tougher. Then a kind of a tallowy kind of a cheesy. Then begin to get black, black treacle oozing out of them. Then dried up. Deathmoths. Of course the cells or whatever they are go on living. Changin about. Live for ever practically. Nothing to feed on feed on themselves. 
But they must breed a devil of a lot of maggots. Soil must be simply swirlin with them. Your head it simply swurls. Those pretty little seaside gurls. H looks cheerful enough over it. Gives him a sense of power seeing all the other go under first. Wonder how he looks at life. Cracking his jokes too: warms th cockles of his heart. The one about the bulletin. Spurgeon went to heaven  a. m. this morning. 11 p. m. (closing time). Not arrived yet. Peter. The dea themselves the men anyhow would like to hear an odd joke or the women to kno what’s in fashion. A juicy pear or ladies’ punch, hot, strong and sweet. Kee out the damp. You must laugh sometimes so better do it that way. Gravedigger in Hamlet. Shows the profound knowledge of the human heart. Daren’t jok about the dead for two years at least. De mortuis nil nisi prius. Go ou of mourning first. Hard to imagine his funeral. Seems a sort of a joke. Rea your own obituary notice they say you live longer. Gives you second wind. Ne lease of life. 
—How many have you for tomorrow? the caretaker asked. 
—Two, Corny Kelleher said. Half ten and eleven. 
The caretaker put the papers in his pocket. The barrow had ceased to trundle. The mourners split and moved to each side of the hole, stepping with care roun the graves. The gravediggers bore the coffin and set its nose on the brink, looping the bands round it. 
Burying him. We come to bury Cæsar. His ides of March or June. He doesn’t kno who is here nor care. Now who is that lankylooking galoot over there in th macintosh? Now who is he I’d like to know? Now I’d give a trifle to know who h is. Always someone turns up you never dreamt of. A fellow could live on hi lonesome all his life. Yes, he could. Still he’d have to get someone to sod hi after he died though he could dig his own grave. We all do. Only man buries. No, ants too. First thing strikes anybody. Bury the dead. Say Robinson Cruso was true to life. Well then Friday buried him. Every Friday buries a Thursda if you come to look at it. 
O, poor Robinson Crusoe!How could you possibly do so? 
Poor Dignam! His last lie on the earth in his box. When you think of them al it does seem a waste of wood. All gnawed through. They could invent a handsom bier with a kind of panel sliding, let it down that way. Ay but they migh object to be buried out of another fellow’s. They’re so particular. Lay me i my native earth. Bit of clay from the holy land. Only a mother and deadbor child ever buried in the one coffin. I see what it means. I see. To protect hi as long as possible even in the earth. The Irishman’s house is his coffin. Embalming in catacombs, mummies the same idea. 
Mr Bloom stood far back, his hat in his hand, counting the bared heads. Twelve. I’m thirteen. No. The chap in the macintosh is thirteen. Death’s number. Wher the deuce did he pop out of? He wasn’t in the chapel, that I’ll swear. Sill superstition that about thirteen. 
Nice soft tweed Ned Lambert has in that suit. Tinge of purple. I had one lik that when we lived in Lombard street west. Dressy fellow he was once. Used t change three suits in the day. Must get that grey suit of mine turned b Mesias. Hello. It’s dyed. His wife I forgot he’s not married or his landlad ought to have picked out those threads for him. 
The coffin dived out of sight, eased down by the men straddled on th gravetrestles. They struggled up and out: and all uncovered. Twenty. 
Pause. 
If we were all suddenly somebody else. 
Far away a donkey brayed. Rain. No such ass. Never see a dead one, they say. Shame of death. They hide. Also poor papa went away. 
Gentle sweet air blew round the bared heads in a whisper. Whisper. The boy b the gravehead held his wreath with both hands staring quietly in the black ope space. Mr Bloom moved behind the portly kindly caretaker. Wellcut frockcoat. Weighing them up perhaps to see which will go next. Well, it is a long rest. Feel no more. It’s the moment you feel. Must be damned unpleasant. Can’ believe it at first. Mistake must be: someone else. Try the house opposite. Wait, I wanted to. I haven’t yet. Then darkened deathchamber. Light they want. Whispering around you. Would you like to see a priest? Then rambling an wandering. Delirium all you hid all your life. The death struggle. His sleep i not natural. Press his lower eyelid. Watching is his nose pointed is his ja sinking are the soles of his feet yellow. Pull the pillow away and finish i off on the floor since he’s doomed. Devil in that picture of sinner’s deat showing him a woman. Dying to embrace her in his shirt. Last act of Lucia. Shall I nevermore behold thee? Bam! He expires. Gone at last. People tal about you a bit: forget you. Don’t forget to pray for him. Remember him in you prayers. Even Parnell. Ivy day dying out. Then they follow: dropping into  hole, one after the other. 
We are praying now for the repose of his soul. Hoping you’re well and not i hell. Nice change of air. Out of the fryingpan of life into the fire o purgatory. 
Does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself? They say you do when yo shiver in the sun. Someone walking over it. Callboy’s warning. Near you. Min over there towards Finglas, the plot I bought. Mamma, poor mamma, and littl Rudy. 
The gravediggers took up their spades and flung heavy clods of clay in on th coffin. Mr Bloom turned away his face. And if he was alive all the time? Whew!By jingo, that would be awful! No, no: he is dead, of course. Of course he i dead. Monday he died. They ought to have some law to pierce the heart and mak sure or an electric clock or a telephone in the coffin and some kind of  canvas airhole. Flag of distress. Three days. Rather long to keep them i summer. Just as well to get shut of them as soon as you are sure there’s no. 
The clay fell softer. Begin to be forgotten. Out of sight, out of mind. 
The caretaker moved away a few paces and put on his hat. Had enough of it. Th mourners took heart of grace, one by one, covering themselves without show. M Bloom put on his hat and saw the portly figure make its way deftly through th maze of graves. Quietly, sure of his ground, he traversed the dismal fields. 
Hynes jotting down something in his notebook. Ah, the names. But he knows the all. No: coming to me. 
—I am just taking the names, Hynes said below his breath. What is you christian name? I’m not sure. 
—L, Mr Bloom said. Leopold. And you might put down M’Coy’s name too. H asked me to. 
—Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. He was on the Freeman once. 
So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne. Good idea  postmortem for doctors. Find out what they imagine they know. He died of  Tuesday. Got the run. Levanted with the cash of a few ads. Charley, you’re m darling. That was why he asked me to. O well, does no harm. I saw to that, M’Coy. Thanks, old chap: much obliged. Leave him under an obligation: cost nothing. 
—And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow was ove there in the... 
He looked around. 
—Macintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now? 
—M’Intosh, Hynes said scribbling. I don’t know who he is. Is that hi name? 
He moved away, looking about him. 
—No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, Hynes! 
Didn’t hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Well of all the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. Good Lord, wha became of him? 
A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade. 
—O, excuse me! 
He stepped aside nimbly. 
Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. It rose. Nearly over. A moun of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested their spades. Al uncovered again for a few instants. The boy propped his wreath against  corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. The gravediggers put on their cap and carried their earthy spades towards the barrow. Then knocked the blade lightly on the turf: clean. One bent to pluck from the haft a long tuft o grass. One, leaving his mates, walked slowly on with shouldered weapon, it blade blueglancing. Silently at the gravehead another coiled the coffinband. His navelcord. The brother-in-law, turning away, placed something in his fre hand. Thanks in silence. Sorry, sir: trouble. Headshake. I know that. Fo yourselves just. 
The mourners moved away slowly without aim, by devious paths, staying at while to read a name on a tomb. 
—Let us go round by the chief’s grave, Hynes said. We have time. 
—Let us, Mr Power said. 
They turned to the right, following their slow thoughts. With awe Mr Power’ blank voice spoke: 
—Some say he is not in that grave at all. That the coffin was filled wit stones. That one day he will come again. 
Hynes shook his head. 
—Parnell will never come again, he said. He’s there, all that was morta of him. Peace to his ashes. 
Mr Bloom walked unheeded along his grove by saddened angels, crosses, broke pillars, family vaults, stone hopes praying with upcast eyes, old Ireland’ hearts and hands. More sensible to spend the money on some charity for th living. Pray for the repose of the soul of. Does anybody really? Plant him an have done with him. Like down a coalshoot. Then lump them together to sav time. All souls’ day. Twentyseventh I’ll be at his grave. Ten shillings for th gardener. He keeps it free of weeds. Old man himself. Bent down double with hi shears clipping. Near death’s door. Who passed away. Who departed this life. A if they did it of their own accord. Got the shove, all of them. Who kicked th bucket. More interesting if they told you what they were. So and So, wheelwright. I travelled for cork lino. I paid five shillings in the pound. O a woman’s with her saucepan. I cooked good Irish stew. Eulogy in a countr churchyard it ought to be that poem of whose is it Wordsworth or Thoma Campbell. Entered into rest the protestants put it. Old Dr Murren’s. The grea physician called him home. Well it’s God’s acre for them. Nice countr residence. Newly plastered and painted. Ideal spot to have a quiet smoke an read the Church Times. Marriage ads they never try to beautify. Rust wreaths hung on knobs, garlands of bronzefoil. Better value that for the money. Still, the flowers are more poetical. The other gets rather tiresome, neve withering. Expresses nothing. Immortelles. 
A bird sat tamely perched on a poplar branch. Like stuffed. Like the weddin present alderman Hooper gave us. Hoo! Not a budge out of him. Knows there ar no catapults to let fly at him. Dead animal even sadder. Silly-Milly buryin the little dead bird in the kitchen matchbox, a daisychain and bits of broke chainies on the grave. 
The Sacred Heart that is: showing it. Heart on his sleeve. Ought to be sideway and red it should be painted like a real heart. Ireland was dedicated to it o whatever that. Seems anything but pleased. Why this infliction? Would bird come then and peck like the boy with the basket of fruit but he said no becaus they ought to have been afraid of the boy. Apollo that was. 
How many! All these here once walked round Dublin. Faithful departed. As yo are now so once were we. 
Besides how could you remember everybody? Eyes, walk, voice. Well, the voice, yes: gramophone. Have a gramophone in every grave or keep it in the house. After dinner on a Sunday. Put on poor old greatgrandfather. Kraahraark!Hellohellohello amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeagain hellohello amaw krpthsth. Remind you of the voice like the photograph reminds you of the face. Otherwise you couldn’t remember the face after fifteen years, say. For instanc who? For instance some fellow that died when I was in Wisdom Hely’s. 
Rtststr! A rattle of pebbles. Wait. Stop! 
He looked down intently into a stone crypt. Some animal. Wait. There he goes. 
An obese grey rat toddled along the side of the crypt, moving the pebbles. A old stager: greatgrandfather: he knows the ropes. The grey alive crushed itsel in under the plinth, wriggled itself in under it. Good hidingplace fo treasure. 
Who lives there? Are laid the remains of Robert Emery. Robert Emmet was burie here by torchlight, wasn’t he? Making his rounds. 
Tail gone now. 
One of those chaps would make short work of a fellow. Pick the bones clean n matter who it was. Ordinary meat for them. A corpse is meat gone bad. Well an what’s cheese? Corpse of milk. I read in that Voyages in China that th Chinese say a white man smells like a corpse. Cremation better. Priests dea against it. Devilling for the other firm. Wholesale burners and Dutch ove dealers. Time of the plague. Quicklime feverpits to eat them. Lethal chamber. Ashes to ashes. Or bury at sea. Where is that Parsee tower of silence? Eaten b birds. Earth, fire, water. Drowning they say is the pleasantest. See your whol life in a flash. But being brought back to life no. Can’t bury in the ai however. Out of a flying machine. Wonder does the news go about whenever  fresh one is let down. Underground communication. We learned that from them. Wouldn’t be surprised. Regular square feed for them. Flies come before he’ well dead. Got wind of Dignam. They wouldn’t care about the smell of it. Saltwhite crumbling mush of corpse: smell, taste like raw white turnips. 
The gates glimmered in front: still open. Back to the world again. Enough o this place. Brings you a bit nearer every time. Last time I was here was Mr Sinico’s funeral. Poor papa too. The love that kills. And even scraping up th earth at night with a lantern like that case I read of to get at fresh burie females or even putrefied with running gravesores. Give you the creeps after  bit. I will appear to you after death. You will see my ghost after death. M ghost will haunt you after death. There is another world after death name hell. I do not like that other world she wrote. No more do I. Plenty to see an hear and feel yet. Feel live warm beings near you. Let them sleep in thei maggoty beds. They are not going to get me this innings. Warm beds: war fullblooded life. 
Martin Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely. 
Solicitor, I think. I know his face. Menton, John Henry, solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits. Dignam used to be in his office. Ma Dillon’s long ago. Jolly Mat. Convivial evenings. Cold fowl, cigars, th Tantalus glasses. Heart of gold really. Yes, Menton. Got his rag out tha evening on the bowlinggreen because I sailed inside him. Pure fluke of mine:the bias. Why he took such a rooted dislike to me. Hate at first sight. Moll and Floey Dillon linked under the lilactree, laughing. Fellow always like that, mortified if women are by. 
Got a dinge in the side of his hat. Carriage probably. 
—Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom said beside them. 
They stopped. 
—Your hat is a little crushed, Mr Bloom said pointing. 
John Henry Menton stared at him for an instant without moving. 
—There, Martin Cunningham helped, pointing also. 
John Henry Menton took off his hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed the na with care on his coatsleeve. He clapped the hat on his head again. 
—It’s all right now, Martin Cunningham said. 
John Henry Menton jerked his head down in acknowledgment. 
—Thank you, he said shortly. 
They walked on towards the gates. Mr Bloom, chapfallen, drew behind a few pace so as not to overhear. Martin laying down the law. Martin could wind  sappyhead like that round his little finger, without his seeing it. 
Oyster eyes. Never mind. Be sorry after perhaps when it dawns on him. Get th pull over him that way. 
Thank you. How grand we are this morning! 




IN THE HEART OF THE HIBERNIAN METROPOLIS
Before Nelson’s pillar trams slowed, shunted, changed trolley, started fo Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Clonskea, Rathgar and Terenure, Palmersto Park and upper Rathmines, Sandymount Green, Rathmines, Ringsend and Sandymoun Tower, Harold’s Cross. The hoarse Dublin United Tramway Company’s timekeepe bawled them off: 
—Rathgar and Terenure! 
—Come on, Sandymount Green! 
Right and left parallel clanging ringing a doubledecker and a singledeck move from their railheads, swerved to the down line, glided parallel. 
—Start, Palmerston Park! 
THE WEARER OF THE CROWN
Under the porch of the general post office shoeblacks called and polished. Parked in North Prince’s street His Majesty’s vermilion mailcars, bearing o their sides the royal initials, E. R., received loudly flung sacks of letters, postcards, lettercards, parcels, insured and paid, for local, provincial, British and overseas delivery. 
GENTLEMEN OF THE PRESS
Grossbooted draymen rolled barrels dullthudding out of Prince’s stores an bumped them up on the brewery float. On the brewery float bumped dullthuddin barrels rolled by grossbooted draymen out of Prince’s stores. 
—There it is, Red Murray said. Alexander Keyes. 
—Just cut it out, will you? Mr Bloom said, and I’ll take it round to th Telegraph office. 
The door of Ruttledge’s office creaked again. Davy Stephens, minute in a larg capecoat, a small felt hat crowning his ringlets, passed out with a roll o papers under his cape, a king’s courier. 
Red Murray’s long shears sliced out the advertisement from the newspaper i four clean strokes. Scissors and paste. 
—I’ll go through the printingworks, Mr Bloom said, taking the cut square. 
—Of course, if he wants a par, Red Murray said earnestly, a pen behin his ear, we can do him one. 
—Right, Mr Bloom said with a nod. I’ll rub that in. 
We. 
WILLIAM BRAYDEN, ESQUIRE, OF OAKLANDS, SANDYMOUNT
Red Murray touched Mr Bloom’s arm with the shears and whispered: 
—Brayden. 
Mr Bloom turned and saw the liveried porter raise his lettered cap as a statel figure entered between the newsboards of the Weekly Freeman and Nationa Press and the Freeman’s Journal and National Press. Dullthuddin Guinness’s barrels. It passed statelily up the staircase, steered by a umbrella, a solemn beardframed face. The broadcloth back ascended each step:back. All his brains are in the nape of his neck, Simon Dedalus says. Welts o flesh behind on him. Fat folds of neck, fat, neck, fat, neck. 
—Don’t you think his face is like Our Saviour? Red Murray whispered. 
The door of Ruttledge’s office whispered: ee: cree. They always build one doo opposite another for the wind to. Way in. Way out. 
Our Saviour: beardframed oval face: talking in the dusk. Mary, Martha. Steere by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor. 
—Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said. 
—Yes, Red Murray agreed. But Mario was said to be the picture of Ou Saviour. 
Jesusmario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. Hand on his heart. I Martha. 
Co-ome thou lost one, Co-ome thou dear one! 
THE CROZIER AND THE PEN
—His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely. 
They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. Neck. 
A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter and steppe off posthaste with a word: 
—Freeman! 
Mr Bloom said slowly: 
—Well, he is one of our saviours also. 
A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as he passed i through a sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage, along the no reverberating boards. But will he save the circulation? Thumping. Thumping. 
He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewn packin paper. Through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towards Nannetti’ reading closet. 
WITH UNFEIGNED REGRET IT IS WE ANNOUNCE THE DISSOLUTION OF A MOST RESPECTE DUBLIN BURGESS
Hynes here too: account of the funeral probably. Thumping. Thump. This mornin the remains of the late Mr Patrick Dignam. Machines. Smash a man to atoms i they got him caught. Rule the world today. His machineries are pegging awa too. Like these, got out of hand: fermenting. Working away, tearing away. An that old grey rat tearing to get in. 
HOW A GREAT DAILY ORGAN IS TURNED OUT
Mr Bloom halted behind the foreman’s spare body, admiring a glossy crown. 
Strange he never saw his real country. Ireland my country. Member for Colleg green. He boomed that workaday worker tack for all it was worth. It’s the ad and side features sell a weekly, not the stale news in the official gazette. Queen Anne is dead. Published by authority in the year one thousand and. Demesne situate in the townland of Rosenallis, barony of Tinnahinch. To al whom it may concern schedule pursuant to statute showing return of number o mules and jennets exported from Ballina. Nature notes. Cartoons. Phil Blake’ weekly Pat and Bull story. Uncle Toby’s page for tiny tots. Country bumpkin’ queries. Dear Mr Editor, what is a good cure for flatulence? I’d like tha part. Learn a lot teaching others. The personal note. M. A. P. Mainly al pictures. Shapely bathers on golden strand. World’s biggest balloon. Doubl marriage of sisters celebrated. Two bridegrooms laughing heartily at eac other. Cuprani too, printer. More Irish than the Irish. 
The machines clanked in threefour time. Thump, thump, thump. Now if he go paralysed there and no-one knew how to stop them they’d clank on and on th same, print it over and over and up and back. Monkeydoodle the whole thing. Want a cool head. 
—Well, get it into the evening edition, councillor, Hynes said. 
Soon be calling him my lord mayor. Long John is backing him, they say. 
The foreman, without answering, scribbled press on a corner of the sheet an made a sign to a typesetter. He handed the sheet silently over the dirty glas screen. 
—Right: thanks, Hynes said moving off. 
Mr Bloom stood in his way. 
—If you want to draw the cashier is just going to lunch, he said, pointing backward with his thumb. 
—Did you? Hynes asked. 
—Mm, Mr Bloom said. Look sharp and you’ll catch him. 
—Thanks, old man, Hynes said. I’ll tap him too. 
He hurried on eagerly towards the Freeman’s Journal. 
Three bob I lent him in Meagher’s. Three weeks. Third hint. 
WE SEE THE CANVASSER AT WORK
Mr Bloom laid his cutting on Mr Nannetti’s desk. 
—Excuse me, councillor, he said. This ad, you see. Keyes, you remember? 
Mr Nannetti considered the cutting awhile and nodded. 
—He wants it in for July, Mr Bloom said. 
The foreman moved his pencil towards it. 
—But wait, Mr Bloom said. He wants it changed. Keyes, you see. He want two keys at the top. 
Hell of a racket they make. He doesn’t hear it. Nannan. Iron nerves. Maybe h understands what I. 
The foreman turned round to hear patiently and, lifting an elbow, began t scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket. 
—Like that, Mr Bloom said, crossing his forefingers at the top. 
Let him take that in first. 
Mr Bloom, glancing sideways up from the cross he had made, saw the foreman’ sallow face, think he has a touch of jaundice, and beyond the obedient reel feeding in huge webs of paper. Clank it. Clank it. Miles of it unreeled. Wha becomes of it after? O, wrap up meat, parcels: various uses, thousand and on things. 
Slipping his words deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drew swiftly o the scarred woodwork. 
HOUSE OF KEY(E)S
—Like that, see. Two crossed keys here. A circle. Then here the name. Alexander Keyes, tea, wine and spirit merchant. So on. 
Better not teach him his own business. 
—You know yourself, councillor, just what he wants. Then round the top i leaded: the house of keys. You see? Do you think that’s a good idea? 
The foreman moved his scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratched ther quietly. 
—The idea, Mr Bloom said, is the house of keys. You know, councillor, th Manx parliament. Innuendo of home rule. Tourists, you know, from the isle o Man. Catches the eye, you see. Can you do that? 
I could ask him perhaps about how to pronounce that voglio. But then i he didn’t know only make it awkward for him. Better not. 
—We can do that, the foreman said. Have you the design? 
—I can get it, Mr Bloom said. It was in a Kilkenny paper. He has a hous there too. I’ll just run out and ask him. Well, you can do that and just  little par calling attention. You know the usual. Highclass licensed premises. Longfelt want. So on. 
The foreman thought for an instant. 
—We can do that, he said. Let him give us a three months’ renewal. 
A typesetter brought him a limp galleypage. He began to check it silently. M Bloom stood by, hearing the loud throbs of cranks, watching the silen typesetters at their cases. 
ORTHOGRAPHICAL
Want to be sure of his spelling. Proof fever. Martin Cunningham forgot to giv us his spellingbee conundrum this morning. It is amusing to view the unpar on ar alleled embarra two ars is it? double ess ment of a harassed pedlar whil gauging au the symmetry with a y of a peeled pear under a cemetery wall. Silly, isn’t it? Cemetery put in of course on account of the symmetry. 
I should have said when he clapped on his topper. Thank you. I ought to hav said something about an old hat or something. No. I could have said. Looks a good as new now. See his phiz then. 
Sllt. The nethermost deck of the first machine jogged forward its flyboard wit sllt the first batch of quirefolded papers. Sllt. Almost human the way it sll to call attention. Doing its level best to speak. That door too sllt creaking, asking to be shut. Everything speaks in its own way. Sllt. 
NOTED CHURCHMAN AN OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTOR
The foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly, saying: 
—Wait. Where’s the archbishop’s letter? It’s to be repeated in th Telegraph. Where’s what’s his name? 
He looked about him round his loud unanswering machines. 
—Monks, sir? a voice asked from the castingbox. 
—Ay. Where’s Monks? 
—Monks! 
Mr Bloom took up his cutting. Time to get out. 
—Then I’ll get the design, Mr Nannetti, he said, and you’ll give it  good place I know. 
—Monks! 
—Yes, sir. 
Three months’ renewal. Want to get some wind off my chest first. Try it anyhow. Rub in August: good idea: horseshow month. Ballsbridge. Tourists over for th show. 
A DAYFATHER
He walked on through the caseroom passing an old man, bowed, spectacled, aproned. Old Monks, the dayfather. Queer lot of stuff he must have put throug his hands in his time: obituary notices, pubs’ ads, speeches, divorce suits, found drowned. Nearing the end of his tether now. Sober serious man with a bi in the savingsbank I’d say. Wife a good cook and washer. Daughter working th machine in the parlour. Plain Jane, no damn nonsense. 
AND IT WAS THE FEAST OF THE PASSOVER
He stayed in his walk to watch a typesetter neatly distributing type. Reads i backwards first. Quickly he does it. Must require some practice that. mangi kcirtaP. Poor papa with his hagadah book, reading backwards with his finger t me. Pessach. Next year in Jerusalem. Dear, O dear! All that long business abou that brought us out of the land of Egypt and into the house of bondag alleluia. Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu. No, that’s the other. Then th twelve brothers, Jacob’s sons. And then the lamb and the cat and the dog an the stick and the water and the butcher. And then the angel of death kills th butcher and he kills the ox and the dog kills the cat. Sounds a bit silly til you come to look into it well. Justice it means but it’s everybody eatin everyone else. That’s what life is after all. How quickly he does that job. Practice makes perfect. Seems to see with his fingers. 
Mr Bloom passed on out of the clanking noises through the gallery on to th landing. Now am I going to tram it out all the way and then catch him ou perhaps. Better phone him up first. Number? Yes. Same as Citron’s house. Twentyeight. Twentyeight double four. 
ONLY ONCE MORE THAT SOAP
He went down the house staircase. Who the deuce scrawled all over those wall with matches? Looks as if they did it for a bet. Heavy greasy smell ther always is in those works. Lukewarm glue in Thom’s next door when I was there. 
He took out his handkerchief to dab his nose. Citronlemon? Ah, the soap I pu there. Lose it out of that pocket. Putting back his handkerchief he took ou the soap and stowed it away, buttoned, into the hip pocket of his trousers. 
What perfume does your wife use? I could go home still: tram: something  forgot. Just to see: before: dressing. No. Here. No. 
A sudden screech of laughter came from the Evening Telegraph office. Know who that is. What’s up? Pop in a minute to phone. Ned Lambert it is. 
He entered softly. 
ERIN, GREEN GEM OF THE SILVER SEA
—The ghost walks, professor MacHugh murmured softly, biscuitfully to th dusty windowpane. 
Mr Dedalus, staring from the empty fireplace at Ned Lambert’s quizzing face, asked of it sourly: 
—Agonising Christ, wouldn’t it give you a heartburn on your arse? 
Ned Lambert, seated on the table, read on: 
—Or again, note the meanderings of some purling rill as it babbles o its way, tho’ quarrelling with the stony obstacles, to the tumbling waters o Neptune’s blue domain, ’mid mossy banks, fanned by gentlest zephyrs, played o by the glorious sunlight or ’neath the shadows cast o’er its pensive bosom b the overarching leafage of the giants of the forest. What about that, Simon? he asked over the fringe of his newspaper. How’s that for high? 
—Changing his drink, Mr Dedalus said. 
Ned Lambert, laughing, struck the newspaper on his knees, repeating: 
—The pensive bosom and the overarsing leafage. O boys! O boys! 
—And Xenophon looked upon Marathon, Mr Dedalus said, looking again on th fireplace and to the window, and Marathon looked on the sea. 
—That will do, professor MacHugh cried from the window. I don’t want t hear any more of the stuff. 
He ate off the crescent of water biscuit he had been nibbling and, hungered, made ready to nibble the biscuit in his other hand. 
High falutin stuff. Bladderbags. Ned Lambert is taking a day off I see. Rathe upsets a man’s day, a funeral does. He has influence they say. Old Chatterton, the vicechancellor, is his granduncle or his greatgranduncle. Close on ninet they say. Subleader for his death written this long time perhaps. Living t spite them. Might go first himself. Johnny, make room for your uncle. The righ honourable Hedges Eyre Chatterton. Daresay he writes him an odd shaky cheque o two on gale days. Windfall when he kicks out. Alleluia. 
—Just another spasm, Ned Lambert said. 
—What is it? Mr Bloom asked. 
—A recently discovered fragment of Cicero, professor MacHugh answere with pomp of tone. Our lovely land. 
SHORT BUT TO THE POINT
—Whose land? Mr Bloom said simply. 
—Most pertinent question, the professor said between his chews. With a accent on the whose. 
—Dan Dawson’s land Mr Dedalus said. 
—Is it his speech last night? Mr Bloom asked. 
Ned Lambert nodded. 
—But listen to this, he said. 
The doorknob hit Mr Bloom in the small of the back as the door was pushed in. 
—Excuse me, J. J. O’Molloy said, entering. 
Mr Bloom moved nimbly aside. 
—I beg yours, he said. 
—Good day, Jack. 
—Come in. Come in. 
—Good day. 
—How are you, Dedalus? 
—Well. And yourself? 
J. J. O’Molloy shook his head. 
SAD
Cleverest fellow at the junior bar he used to be. Decline, poor chap. Tha hectic flush spells finis for a man. Touch and go with him. What’s in the wind, I wonder. Money worry. 
—Or again if we but climb the serried mountain peaks. 
—You’re looking extra. 
—Is the editor to be seen? J. J. O’Molloy asked, looking towards th inner door. 
—Very much so, professor MacHugh said. To be seen and heard. He’s in hi sanctum with Lenehan. 
J. J. O’Molloy strolled to the sloping desk and began to turn back the pin pages of the file. 
Practice dwindling. A mighthavebeen. Losing heart. Gambling. Debts of honour. Reaping the whirlwind. Used to get good retainers from D. and T. Fitzgerald. Their wigs to show the grey matter. Brains on their sleeve like the statue i Glasnevin. Believe he does some literary work for the Express wit Gabriel Conroy. Wellread fellow. Myles Crawford began on th Independent. Funny the way those newspaper men veer about when they ge wind of a new opening. Weathercocks. Hot and cold in the same breath. Wouldn’ know which to believe. One story good till you hear the next. Go for on another baldheaded in the papers and then all blows over. Hail fellow well me the next moment. 
—Ah, listen to this for God’ sake, Ned Lambert pleaded. Or again if w but climb the serried mountain peaks... 
—Bombast! the professor broke in testily. Enough of the inflated windbag! 
—Peaks, Ned Lambert went on, towering high on high, to bath our souls, as it were... 
—Bathe his lips, Mr Dedalus said. Blessed and eternal God! Yes? Is h taking anything for it? 
—As ’twere, in the peerless panorama of Ireland’s portfolio, unmatched, despite their wellpraised prototypes in other vaunted prize regions, for very beauty, of bosky grove and undulating plain and luscious pasturelan of vernal green, steeped in the transcendent translucent glow of our mil mysterious Irish twilight... 
HIS NATIVE DORIC
—The moon, professor MacHugh said. He forgot Hamlet. 
—That mantles the vista far and wide and wait till the glowing orb o the moon shine forth to irradiate her silver effulgence... 
—O! Mr Dedalus cried, giving vent to a hopeless groan. Shite and onions!That’ll do, Ned. Life is too short. 
He took off his silk hat and, blowing out impatiently his bushy moustache, welshcombed his hair with raking fingers. 
Ned Lambert tossed the newspaper aside, chuckling with delight. An instan after a hoarse bark of laughter burst over professor MacHugh’s unshave blackspectacled face. 
—Doughy Daw! he cried. 
WHAT WETHERUP SAID
All very fine to jeer at it now in cold print but it goes down like hot cak that stuff. He was in the bakery line too, wasn’t he? Why they call him Dough Daw. Feathered his nest well anyhow. Daughter engaged to that chap in th inland revenue office with the motor. Hooked that nicely. Entertainments. Ope house. Big blowout. Wetherup always said that. Get a grip of them by th stomach. 
The inner door was opened violently and a scarlet beaked face, crested by  comb of feathery hair, thrust itself in. The bold blue eyes stared about the and the harsh voice asked: 
—What is it? 
—And here comes the sham squire himself! professor MacHugh said grandly. 
—Getonouthat, you bloody old pedagogue! the editor said in recognition. 
—Come, Ned, Mr Dedalus said, putting on his hat. I must get a drink afte that. 
—Drink! the editor cried. No drinks served before mass. 
—Quite right too, Mr Dedalus said, going out. Come on, Ned. 
Ned Lambert sidled down from the table. The editor’s blue eyes roved towards M Bloom’s face, shadowed by a smile. 
—Will you join us, Myles? Ned Lambert asked. 
MEMORABLE BATTLES RECALLED
—North Cork militia! the editor cried, striding to the mantelpiece. W won every time! North Cork and Spanish officers! 
—Where was that, Myles? Ned Lambert asked with a reflective glance at hi toecaps. 
—In Ohio! the editor shouted. 
—So it was, begad, Ned Lambert agreed. 
Passing out he whispered to J. J. O’Molloy: 
—Incipient jigs. Sad case. 
—Ohio! the editor crowed in high treble from his uplifted scarlet face. My Ohio! 
—A perfect cretic! the professor said. Long, short and long. 
O, HARP EOLIAN! 
He took a reel of dental floss from his waistcoat pocket and, breaking off  piece, twanged it smartly between two and two of his resonant unwashed teeth. 
—Bingbang, bangbang. 
Mr Bloom, seeing the coast clear, made for the inner door. 
—Just a moment, Mr Crawford, he said. I just want to phone about an ad. 
He went in. 
—What about that leader this evening? professor MacHugh asked, coming t the editor and laying a firm hand on his shoulder. 
—That’ll be all right, Myles Crawford said more calmly. Never you fret. Hello, Jack. That’s all right. 
—Good day, Myles, J. J. O’Molloy said, letting the pages he held sli limply back on the file. Is that Canada swindle case on today? 
The telephone whirred inside. 
—Twentyeight... No, twenty... Double four... Yes. 
SPOT THE WINNER
Lenehan came out of the inner office with Sport’s tissues. 
—Who wants a dead cert for the Gold cup? he asked. Sceptre with O. Madde up. 
He tossed the tissues on to the table. 
Screams of newsboys barefoot in the hall rushed near and the door was flun open. 
—Hush, Lenehan said. I hear feetstoops. 
Professor MacHugh strode across the room and seized the cringing urchin by th collar as the others scampered out of the hall and down the steps. The tissue rustled up in the draught, floated softly in the air blue scrawls and under th table came to earth. 
—It wasn’t me, sir. It was the big fellow shoved me, sir. 
—Throw him out and shut the door, the editor said. There’s a hurrican blowing. 
Lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the floor, grunting as he stoope twice. 
—Waiting for the racing special, sir, the newsboy said. It was Pa Farrell shoved me, sir. 
He pointed to two faces peering in round the doorframe. 
—Him, sir. 
—Out of this with you, professor MacHugh said gruffly. 
He hustled the boy out and banged the door to. 
J. J. O’Molloy turned the files crackingly over, murmuring, seeking: 
—Continued on page six, column four. 
—Yes, Evening Telegraph here, Mr Bloom phoned from the inne office. Is the boss...? Yes, Telegraph... To where? Aha! Which auctio rooms?... Aha! I see... Right. I’ll catch him. 
A COLLISION ENSUES
The bell whirred again as he rang off. He came in quickly and bumped agains Lenehan who was struggling up with the second tissue. 
—Pardon, monsieur, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant an making a grimace. 
—My fault, Mr Bloom said, suffering his grip. Are you hurt? I’m in  hurry. 
—Knee, Lenehan said. 
He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee: 
—The accumulation of the anno Domini. 
—Sorry, Mr Bloom said. 
He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused. J. J. O’Molloy slapped th heavy pages over. The noise of two shrill voices, a mouthorgan, echoed in th bare hallway from the newsboys squatted on the doorsteps: 
We are the boys of Wexfor Who fought with heart and hand. 
EXIT BLOOM
—I’m just running round to Bachelor’s walk, Mr Bloom said, about this a of Keyes’s. Want to fix it up. They tell me he’s round there in Dillon’s. 
He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces. The editor who, leanin against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand, suddenly stretche forth an arm amply. 
—Begone! he said. The world is before you. 
—Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out. 
J. J. O’Molloy took the tissues from Lenehan’s hand and read them, blowing the apart gently, without comment. 
—He’ll get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through hi blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Look at the young scamps after him. 
—Show. Where? Lenehan cried, running to the window. 
A STREET CORTÈGE
Both smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr Bloom’ wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, a tail of whit bowknots. 
—Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, an you’ll kick. O, my rib risible! Taking off his flat spaugs and the walk. Smal nines. Steal upon larks. 
He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on sliding feet pas the fireplace to J. J. O’Molloy who placed the tissues in his receiving hands. 
—What’s that? Myles Crawford said with a start. Where are the other tw gone? 
—Who? the professor said, turning. They’re gone round to the Oval for  drink. Paddy Hooper is there with Jack Hall. Came over last night. 
—Come on then, Myles Crawford said. Where’s my hat? 
He walked jerkily into the office behind, parting the vent of his jacket, jingling his keys in his back pocket. They jingled then in the air and agains the wood as he locked his desk drawer. 
—He’s pretty well on, professor MacHugh said in a low voice. 
—Seems to be, J. J. O’Molloy said, taking out a cigarettecase i murmuring meditation, but it is not always as it seems. Who has the mos matches? 
THE CALUMET OF PEACE
He offered a cigarette to the professor and took one himself. Lenehan promptl struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes in turn. J. J. O’Molloy opene his case again and offered it. 
—Thanky vous, Lenehan said, helping himself. 
The editor came from the inner office, a straw hat awry on his brow. H declaimed in song, pointing sternly at professor MacHugh: 
’Twas rank and fame that tempted thee,\n’Twas empire charmed thy heart. 
The professor grinned, locking his long lips. 
—Eh? You bloody old Roman empire? Myles Crawford said. 
He took a cigarette from the open case. Lenehan, lighting it for him with quic grace, said: 
—Silence for my brandnew riddle! 
—Imperium romanum, J. J. O’Molloy said gently. It sounds noble than British or Brixton. The word reminds one somehow of fat in the fire. 
Myles Crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling. 
—That’s it, he said. We are the fat. You and I are the fat in the fire. We haven’t got the chance of a snowball in hell. 
THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME
—Wait a moment, professor MacHugh said, raising two quiet claws. W mustn’t be led away by words, by sounds of words. We think of Rome, imperial, imperious, imperative. 
He extended elocutionary arms from frayed stained shirtcuffs, pausing: 
—What was their civilisation? Vast, I allow: but vile. Cloacae: sewers. The Jews in the wilderness and on the mountaintop said: It is meet to b here. Let us build an altar to Jehovah. The Roman, like the Englishman wh follows in his footsteps, brought to every new shore on which he set his foo (on our shore he never set it) only his cloacal obsession. He gazed about hi in his toga and he said: It is meet to be here. Let us construct  watercloset. 
—Which they accordingly did do, Lenehan said. Our old ancient ancestors, as we read in the first chapter of Guinness’s, were partial to the runnin stream. 
—They were nature’s gentlemen, J. J. O’Molloy murmured. But we have als Roman law. 
—And Pontius Pilate is its prophet, professor MacHugh responded. 
—Do you know that story about chief baron Palles? J. J. O’Molloy asked. It was at the royal university dinner. Everything was going swimmingly ... 
—First my riddle, Lenehan said. Are you ready? 
Mr O’Madden Burke, tall in copious grey of Donegal tweed, came in from th hallway. Stephen Dedalus, behind him, uncovered as he entered. 
—Entrez, mes enfants! Lenehan cried. 
—I escort a suppliant, Mr O’Madden Burke said melodiously. Youth led b Experience visits Notoriety. 
—How do you do? the editor said, holding out a hand. Come in. You governor is just gone. 
??? 
Lenehan said to all: 
—Silence! What opera resembles a railwayline? Reflect, ponder, excogitate, reply. 
Stephen handed over the typed sheets, pointing to the title and signature. 
—Who? the editor asked. 
Bit torn off. 
—Mr Garrett Deasy, Stephen said. 
—That old pelters, the editor said. Who tore it? Was he short taken? 
On swift sail flamin From storm and sout He comes, pale vampire, Mouth to my mouth. 
—Good day, Stephen, the professor said, coming to peer over thei shoulders. Foot and mouth? Are you turned...? 
Bullockbefriending bard. 
SHINDY IN WELLKNOWN RESTAURANT
—Good day, sir, Stephen answered blushing. The letter is not mine. M Garrett Deasy asked me to... 
—O, I know him, Myles Crawford said, and I knew his wife too. Th bloodiest old tartar God ever made. By Jesus, she had the foot and mout disease and no mistake! The night she threw the soup in the waiter’s face i the Star and Garter. Oho! 
A woman brought sin into the world. For Helen, the runaway wife of Menelaus, ten years the Greeks. O’Rourke, prince of Breffni. 
—Is he a widower? Stephen asked. 
—Ay, a grass one, Myles Crawford said, his eye running down th typescript. Emperor’s horses. Habsburg. An Irishman saved his life on th ramparts of Vienna. Don’t you forget! Maximilian Karl O’Donnell, graf vo Tirconnell in Ireland. Sent his heir over to make the king an Austria fieldmarshal now. Going to be trouble there one day. Wild geese. O yes, ever time. Don’t you forget that! 
—The moot point is did he forget it, J. J. O’Molloy said quietly, turnin a horseshoe paperweight. Saving princes is a thank you job. 
Professor MacHugh turned on him. 
—And if not? he said. 
—I’ll tell you how it was, Myles Crawford began. A Hungarian it was on day... 
LOST CAUSES NOBLE MARQUESS MENTIONED
—We were always loyal to lost causes, the professor said. Success for u is the death of the intellect and of the imagination. We were never loyal t the successful. We serve them. I teach the blatant Latin language. I speak th tongue of a race the acme of whose mentality is the maxim: time is money. Material domination. Dominus! Lord! Where is the spirituality? Lor Jesus? Lord Salisbury? A sofa in a westend club. But the Greek! 
KYRIE ELEISON! 
A smile of light brightened his darkrimmed eyes, lengthened his long lips. 
—The Greek! he said again. Kyrios! Shining word! The vowels th Semite and the Saxon know not. Kyrie! The radiance of the intellect.  ought to profess Greek, the language of the mind. Kyrie eleison! Th closetmaker and the cloacamaker will never be lords of our spirit. We are lieg subjects of the catholic chivalry of Europe that foundered at Trafalgar and o the empire of the spirit, not an imperium, that went under with th Athenian fleets at Aegospotami. Yes, yes. They went under. Pyrrhus, misled b an oracle, made a last attempt to retrieve the fortunes of Greece. Loyal to  lost cause. 
He strode away from them towards the window. 
—They went forth to battle, Mr O’Madden Burke said greyly, but the always fell. 
—Boohoo! Lenehan wept with a little noise. Owing to a brick received i the latter half of the matinée. Poor, poor, poor Pyrrhus! 
He whispered then near Stephen’s ear: 
LENEHAN’S LIMERICK
—There’s a ponderous pundit MacHug Who wears goggles of ebony hue. As he mostly sees doubl To wear them why trouble?I can’t see the Joe Miller. Can you? 
In mourning for Sallust, Mulligan says. Whose mother is beastly dead. 
Myles Crawford crammed the sheets into a sidepocket. 
—That’ll be all right, he said. I’ll read the rest after. That’ll be al right. 
Lenehan extended his hands in protest. 
—But my riddle! he said. What opera is like a railwayline? 
—Opera? Mr O’Madden Burke’s sphinx face reriddled. 
Lenehan announced gladly: 
—The Rose of Castile. See the wheeze? Rows of cast steel. Gee! 
He poked Mr O’Madden Burke mildly in the spleen. Mr O’Madden Burke fell bac with grace on his umbrella, feigning a gasp. 
—Help! he sighed. I feel a strong weakness. 
Lenehan, rising to tiptoe, fanned his face rapidly with the rustling tissues. 
The professor, returning by way of the files, swept his hand across Stephen’ and Mr O’Madden Burke’s loose ties. 
—Paris, past and present, he said. You look like communards. 
—Like fellows who had blown up the Bastile, J. J. O’Molloy said in quie mockery. Or was it you shot the lord lieutenant of Finland between you? Yo look as though you had done the deed. General Bobrikoff. 
OMNIUM GATHERUM
—We were only thinking about it, Stephen said. 
—All the talents, Myles Crawford said. Law, the classics... 
—The turf, Lenehan put in. 
—Literature, the press. 
—If Bloom were here, the professor said. The gentle art of advertisement. 
—And Madam Bloom, Mr O’Madden Burke added. The vocal muse. Dublin’s prim favourite. 
Lenehan gave a loud cough. 
—Ahem! he said very softly. O, for a fresh of breath air! I caught a col in the park. The gate was open. 
“YOU CAN DO IT!” 
The editor laid a nervous hand on Stephen’s shoulder. 
—I want you to write something for me, he said. Something with a bite i it. You can do it. I see it in your face. In the lexicon of youth... 
See it in your face. See it in your eye. Lazy idle little schemer. 
—Foot and mouth disease! the editor cried in scornful invective. Grea nationalist meeting in Borris-in-Ossory. All balls! Bulldosing the public! Giv them something with a bite in it. Put us all into it, damn its soul. Father, Son and Holy Ghost and Jakes M’Carthy. 
—We can all supply mental pabulum, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
Stephen raised his eyes to the bold unheeding stare. 
—He wants you for the pressgang, J. J. O’Molloy said. 
THE GREAT GALLAHER
—You can do it, Myles Crawford repeated, clenching his hand in emphasis. Wait a minute. We’ll paralyse Europe as Ignatius Gallaher used to say when h was on the shaughraun, doing billiardmarking in the Clarence. Gallaher, tha was a pressman for you. That was a pen. You know how he made his mark? I’l tell you. That was the smartest piece of journalism ever known. That was i eightyone, sixth of May, time of the invincibles, murder in the Phoenix park, before you were born, I suppose. I’ll show you. 
He pushed past them to the files. 
—Look at here, he said turning. The New York World cabled for  special. Remember that time? 
Professor MacHugh nodded. 
—New York World, the editor said, excitedly pushing back his stra hat. Where it took place. Tim Kelly, or Kavanagh I mean. Joe Brady and the res of them. Where Skin-the-Goat drove the car. Whole route, see? 
—Skin-the-Goat, Mr O’Madden Burke said. Fitzharris. He has that cabman’ shelter, they say, down there at Butt bridge. Holohan told me. You kno Holohan? 
—Hop and carry one, is it? Myles Crawford said. 
—And poor Gumley is down there too, so he told me, minding stones for th corporation. A night watchman. 
Stephen turned in surprise. 
—Gumley? he said. You don’t say so? A friend of my father’s, is it? 
—Never mind Gumley, Myles Crawford cried angrily. Let Gumley mind th stones, see they don’t run away. Look at here. What did Ignatius Gallaher do?I’ll tell you. Inspiration of genius. Cabled right away. Have you Weekl Freeman of 17 March? Right. Have you got that? 
He flung back pages of the files and stuck his finger on a point. 
—Take page four, advertisement for Bransome’s coffee, let us say. Hav you got that? Right. 
The telephone whirred. 
A DISTANT VOICE
—I’ll answer it, the professor said, going. 
—B is parkgate. Good. 
His finger leaped and struck point after point, vibrating. 
—T is viceregal lodge. C is where murder took place. K is Knockmaroo gate. 
The loose flesh of his neck shook like a cock’s wattles. An illstarched dick jutted up and with a rude gesture he thrust it back into his waistcoat. 
—Hello? Evening Telegraph here... Hello?... Who’s there?... Yes... Yes... Yes. 
—F to P is the route Skin-the-Goat drove the car for an alibi, Inchicore, Roundtown, Windy Arbour, Palmerston Park, Ranelagh. F. A. B. P. Got that? X i Davy’s publichouse in upper Leeson street. 
The professor came to the inner door. 
—Bloom is at the telephone, he said. 
—Tell him go to hell, the editor said promptly. X is Davy’s publichouse, see? 
CLEVER, VERY
—Clever, Lenehan said. Very. 
—Gave it to them on a hot plate, Myles Crawford said, the whole blood history. 
Nightmare from which you will never awake. 
—I saw it, the editor said proudly. I was present. Dick Adams, th besthearted bloody Corkman the Lord ever put the breath of life in, and myself. 
Lenehan bowed to a shape of air, announcing: 
—Madam, I’m Adam. And Able was I ere I saw Elba. 
—History! Myles Crawford cried. The Old Woman of Prince’s street wa there first. There was weeping and gnashing of teeth over that. Out of a advertisement. Gregor Grey made the design for it. That gave him the leg up. Then Paddy Hooper worked Tay Pay who took him on to the Star. Now he’ got in with Blumenfeld. That’s press. That’s talent. Pyatt! He was all thei daddies! 
—The father of scare journalism, Lenehan confirmed, and th brother-in-law of Chris Callinan. 
—Hello?... Are you there?... Yes, he’s here still. Come across yourself. 
—Where do you find a pressman like that now, eh? the editor cried. 
He flung the pages down. 
—Clamn dever, Lenehan said to Mr O’Madden Burke. 
—Very smart, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
Professor MacHugh came from the inner office. 
—Talking about the invincibles, he said, did you see that some hawker were up before the recorder... 
—O yes, J. J. O’Molloy said eagerly. Lady Dudley was walking home throug the park to see all the trees that were blown down by that cyclone last yea and thought she’d buy a view of Dublin. And it turned out to be a commemoratio postcard of Joe Brady or Number One or Skin-the-Goat. Right outside th viceregal lodge, imagine! 
—They’re only in the hook and eye department, Myles Crawford said. Psha!Press and the bar! Where have you a man now at the bar like those fellows, lik Whiteside, like Isaac Butt, like silvertongued O’Hagan. Eh? Ah, blood nonsense. Psha! Only in the halfpenny place. 
His mouth continued to twitch unspeaking in nervous curls of disdain. 
Would anyone wish that mouth for her kiss? How do you know? Why did you writ it then? 
RHYMES AND REASONS
Mouth, south. Is the mouth south someway? Or the south a mouth? Must be some. South, pout, out, shout, drouth. Rhymes: two men dressed the same, looking th same, two by two. 
........................ la tua pac .................. che parlar ti piac Mentre che il vento, come fa, si tace. 
He saw them three by three, approaching girls, in green, in rose, in russet, entwining, per l’aer perso, in mauve, in purple, quella pacific oriafiamma, gold of oriflamme, di rimirar fè più ardenti. But I ol men, penitent, leadenfooted, underdarkneath the night: mouth south: tomb womb. 
—Speak up for yourself, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
SUFFICIENT FOR THE DAY... 
J. J. O’Molloy, smiling palely, took up the gage. 
—My dear Myles, he said, flinging his cigarette aside, you put a fals construction on my words. I hold no brief, as at present advised, for the thir profession qua profession but your Cork legs are running away with you. Why not bring in Henry Grattan and Flood and Demosthenes and Edmund Burke?Ignatius Gallaher we all know and his Chapelizod boss, Harmsworth of th farthing press, and his American cousin of the Bowery guttersheet not t mention Paddy Kelly’s Budget, Pue’s Occurrences and our watchfu friend The Skibbereen Eagle. Why bring in a master of forensic eloquenc like Whiteside? Sufficient for the day is the newspaper thereof. 
LINKS WITH BYGONE DAYS OF YORE
—Grattan and Flood wrote for this very paper, the editor cried in hi face. Irish volunteers. Where are you now? Established 1763. Dr Lucas. Who hav you now like John Philpot Curran? Psha! 
—Well, J. J. O’Molloy said, Bushe K. C., for example. 
—Bushe? the editor said. Well, yes: Bushe, yes. He has a strain of it i his blood. Kendal Bushe or I mean Seymour Bushe. 
—He would have been on the bench long ago, the professor said, only fo .... But no matter. 
J. J. O’Molloy turned to Stephen and said quietly and slowly: 
—One of the most polished periods I think I ever listened to in my lif fell from the lips of Seymour Bushe. It was in that case of fratricide, th Childs murder case. Bushe defended him. 
And in the porches of mine ear did pour. 
By the way how did he find that out? He died in his sleep. Or the other story, beast with two backs? 
—What was that? the professor asked. 
ITALIA, MAGISTRA ARTIUM
—He spoke on the law of evidence, J. J. O’Molloy said, of Roman justic as contrasted with the earlier Mosaic code, the lex talionis. And h cited the Moses of Michelangelo in the vatican. 
—Ha. 
—A few wellchosen words, Lenehan prefaced. Silence! 
Pause. J. J. O’Molloy took out his cigarettecase. 
False lull. Something quite ordinary. 
Messenger took out his matchbox thoughtfully and lit his cigar. 
I have often thought since on looking back over that strange time that it wa that small act, trivial in itself, that striking of that match, that determine the whole aftercourse of both our lives. 
A POLISHED PERIOD
J. J. O’Molloy resumed, moulding his words: 
—He said of it: that stony effigy in frozen music, horned an terrible, of the human form divine, that eternal symbol of wisdom and o prophecy which, if aught that the imagination or the hand of sculptor ha wrought in marble of soultransfigured and of soultransfiguring deserves t live, deserves to live. 
His slim hand with a wave graced echo and fall. 
—Fine! Myles Crawford said at once. 
—The divine afflatus, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
—You like it? J. J. O’Molloy asked Stephen. 
Stephen, his blood wooed by grace of language and gesture, blushed. He took  cigarette from the case. J. J. O’Molloy offered his case to Myles Crawford. Lenehan lit their cigarettes as before and took his trophy, saying: 
—Muchibus thankibus. 
A MAN OF HIGH MORALE
—Professor Magennis was speaking to me about you, J. J. O’Molloy said t Stephen. What do you think really of that hermetic crowd, the opal hush poets:A. E. the mastermystic? That Blavatsky woman started it. She was a nice old ba of tricks. A. E. has been telling some yankee interviewer that you came to hi in the small hours of the morning to ask him about planes of consciousness. Magennis thinks you must have been pulling A. E.’s leg. He is a man of the ver highest morale, Magennis. 
Speaking about me. What did he say? What did he say? What did he say about me?Don’t ask. 
—No, thanks, professor MacHugh said, waving the cigarettecase aside. Wai a moment. Let me say one thing. The finest display of oratory I ever heard wa a speech made by John F Taylor at the college historical society. Mr Justic Fitzgibbon, the present lord justice of appeal, had spoken and the paper unde debate was an essay (new for those days), advocating the revival of the Iris tongue. 
He turned towards Myles Crawford and said: 
—You know Gerald Fitzgibbon. Then you can imagine the style of hi discourse. 
—He is sitting with Tim Healy, J. J. O’Molloy said, rumour has it, on th Trinity college estates commission. 
—He is sitting with a sweet thing, Myles Crawford said, in a child’ frock. Go on. Well? 
—It was the speech, mark you, the professor said, of a finished orator, full of courteous haughtiness and pouring in chastened diction I will not sa the vials of his wrath but pouring the proud man’s contumely upon the ne movement. It was then a new movement. We were weak, therefore worthless. 
He closed his long thin lips an instant but, eager to be on, raised a outspanned hand to his spectacles and, with trembling thumb and ringfinge touching lightly the black rims, steadied them to a new focus. 
IMPROMPTU
In ferial tone he addressed J. J. O’Molloy: 
—Taylor had come there, you must know, from a sickbed. That he ha prepared his speech I do not believe for there was not even one shorthandwrite in the hall. His dark lean face had a growth of shaggy beard round it. He wor a loose white silk neckcloth and altogether he looked (though he was not)  dying man. 
His gaze turned at once but slowly from J. J. O’Molloy’s towards Stephen’s fac and then bent at once to the ground, seeking. His unglazed linen colla appeared behind his bent head, soiled by his withering hair. Still seeking, h said: 
—When Fitzgibbon’s speech had ended John F Taylor rose to reply. Briefly, as well as I can bring them to mind, his words were these. 
He raised his head firmly. His eyes bethought themselves once more. Witles shellfish swam in the gross lenses to and fro, seeking outlet. 
He began: 
—Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen: Great was my admiration i listening to the remarks addressed to the youth of Ireland a moment since by m learned friend. It seemed to me that I had been transported into a country fa away from this country, into an age remote from this age, that I stood i ancient Egypt and that I was listening to the speech of some highpriest of tha land addressed to the youthful Moses. 
His listeners held their cigarettes poised to hear, their smokes ascending i frail stalks that flowered with his speech. And let our crooked smokes. Noble words coming. Look out. Could you try your hand at it yourself? 
—And it seemed to me that I heard the voice of that Egyptia highpriest raised in a tone of like haughtiness and like pride. I heard hi words and their meaning was revealed to me. 
FROM THE FATHERS
It was revealed to me that those things are good which yet are corrupted whic neither if they were supremely good nor unless they were good could b corrupted. Ah, curse you! That’s saint Augustine. 
—Why will you jews not accept our culture, our religion and ou language? You are a tribe of nomad herdsmen: we are a mighty people. You hav no cities nor no wealth: our cities are hives of humanity and our galleys, trireme and quadrireme, laden with all manner merchandise furrow the waters o the known globe. You have but emerged from primitive conditions: we have  literature, a priesthood, an agelong history and a polity. 
Nile. 
Child, man, effigy. 
By the Nilebank the babemaries kneel, cradle of bulrushes: a man supple i combat: stonehorned, stonebearded, heart of stone. 
—You pray to a local and obscure idol: our temples, majestic an mysterious, are the abodes of Isis and Osiris, of Horus and Ammon Ra. Your serfdom, awe and humbleness: ours thunder and the seas. Israel is weak and fe are her children: Egypt is an host and terrible are her arms. Vagrants an daylabourers are you called: the world trembles at our name. 
A dumb belch of hunger cleft his speech. He lifted his voice above it boldly: 
—But, ladies and gentlemen, had the youthful Moses listened to an accepted that view of life, had he bowed his head and bowed his will and bowe his spirit before that arrogant admonition he would never have brought th chosen people out of their house of bondage, nor followed the pillar of th cloud by day. He would never have spoken with the Eternal amid lightnings o Sinai’s mountaintop nor ever have come down with the light of inspiratio shining in his countenance and bearing in his arms the tables of the law, graven in the language of the outlaw. 
He ceased and looked at them, enjoying a silence. 
OMINOUS—FOR HIM! 
J. J. O’Molloy said not without regret: 
—And yet he died without having entered the land of promise. 
—A—sudden—at—the—moment—though—from—lingering—illness—often—previously—expectorated—demise, Lenehan added. And with a great future behind him. 
The troop of bare feet was heard rushing along the hallway and pattering up th staircase. 
—That is oratory, the professor said uncontradicted.  
Gone with the wind. Hosts at Mullaghmast and Tara of the kings. Miles of ear of porches. The tribune’s words, howled and scattered to the four winds.  people sheltered within his voice. Dead noise. Akasic records of all that eve anywhere wherever was. Love and laud him: me no more. 
I have money. 
—Gentlemen, Stephen said. As the next motion on the agenda paper may  suggest that the house do now adjourn? 
—You take my breath away. It is not perchance a French compliment? M O’Madden Burke asked. ’Tis the hour, methinks, when the winejug, metaphoricall speaking, is most grateful in Ye ancient hostelry. 
—That it be and hereby is resolutely resolved. All that are in favour sa ay, Lenehan announced. The contrary no. I declare it carried. To whic particular boosing shed...? My casting vote is: Mooney’s! 
He led the way, admonishing: 
—We will sternly refuse to partake of strong waters, will we not? Yes, w will not. By no manner of means. 
Mr O’Madden Burke, following close, said with an ally’s lunge of his umbrella: 
—Lay on, Macduff! 
—Chip of the old block! the editor cried, clapping Stephen on th shoulder. Let us go. Where are those blasted keys? 
He fumbled in his pocket pulling out the crushed typesheets. 
—Foot and mouth. I know. That’ll be all right. That’ll go in. Where ar they? That’s all right. 
He thrust the sheets back and went into the inner office. 
LET US HOPE
J. J. O’Molloy, about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen: 
—I hope you will live to see it published. Myles, one moment. 
He went into the inner office, closing the door behind him. 
—Come along, Stephen, the professor said. That is fine, isn’t it? It ha the prophetic vision. Fuit Ilium! The sack of windy Troy. Kingdoms o this world. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen today. 
The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels and rushed ou into the street, yelling: 
—Racing special! 
Dublin. I have much, much to learn. 
They turned to the left along Abbey street. 
—I have a vision too, Stephen said. 
—Yes? the professor said, skipping to get into step. Crawford wil follow. 
Another newsboy shot past them, yelling as he ran: 
—Racing special! 
DEAR DIRTY DUBLIN
Dubliners. 
—Two Dublin vestals, Stephen said, elderly and pious, have lived fift and fiftythree years in Fumbally’s lane. 
—Where is that? the professor asked. 
—Off Blackpitts, Stephen said. 
Damp night reeking of hungry dough. Against the wall. Face glistering tallo under her fustian shawl. Frantic hearts. Akasic records. Quicker, darlint! 
On now. Dare it. Let there be life. 
—They want to see the views of Dublin from the top of Nelson’s pillar. They save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox. They shake ou the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies with the blade of  knife. Two and three in silver and one and seven in coppers. They put on thei bonnets and best clothes and take their umbrellas for fear it may come on t rain. 
—Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said. 
LIFE ON THE RAW
—They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slices of panloaf a the north city diningrooms in Marlborough street from Miss Kate Collins, proprietress... They purchase four and twenty ripe plums from a girl at th foot of Nelson’s pillar to take off the thirst of the brawn. They give tw threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile and begin to waddle slowly u the winding staircase, grunting, encouraging each other, afraid of the dark, panting, one asking the other have you the brawn, praising God and the Blesse Virgin, threatening to come down, peeping at the airslits. Glory be to God. They had no idea it was that high. 
Their names are Anne Kearns and Florence MacCabe. Anne Kearns has the lumbag for which she rubs on Lourdes water, given her by a lady who got a bottlefu from a passionist father. Florence MacCabe takes a crubeen and a bottle o double X for supper every Saturday. 
—Antithesis, the professor said nodding twice. Vestal virgins. I can se them. What’s keeping our friend? 
He turned. 
A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps, scattering in al directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. Hard after them Myle Crawford appeared on the steps, his hat aureoling his scarlet face, talkin with J. J. O’Molloy. 
—Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm. 
He set off again to walk by Stephen’s side. 
RETURN OF BLOOM
—Yes, he said. I see them. 
Mr Bloom, breathless, caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the offices o the Irish Catholic and Dublin Penny Journal, called: 
—Mr Crawford! A moment! 
—Telegraph! Racing special! 
—What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace. 
A newsboy cried in Mr Bloom’s face: 
—Terrible tragedy in Rathmines! A child bit by a bellows! 
INTERVIEW WITH THE EDITOR
—Just this ad, Mr Bloom said, pushing through towards the steps, puffing, and taking the cutting from his pocket. I spoke with Mr Keyes just now. He’l give a renewal for two months, he says. After he’ll see. But he wants a par t call attention in the Telegraph too, the Saturday pink. And he wants i copied if it’s not too late I told councillor Nannetti from the Kilkenn People. I can have access to it in the national library. House of keys, don’t you see? His name is Keyes. It’s a play on the name. But he practicall promised he’d give the renewal. But he wants just a little puff. What will  tell him, Mr Crawford? 
K. M. A. 
—Will you tell him he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said throwing ou his arm for emphasis. Tell him that straight from the stable. 
A bit nervy. Look out for squalls. All off for a drink. Arm in arm. Lenehan’ yachting cap on the cadge beyond. Usual blarney. Wonder is that young Dedalu the moving spirit. Has a good pair of boots on him today. Last time I saw hi he had his heels on view. Been walking in muck somewhere. Careless chap. Wha was he doing in Irishtown? 
—Well, Mr Bloom said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design  suppose it’s worth a short par. He’d give the ad, I think. I’ll tell him... 
K. M. R. I. A. 
—He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles Crawford cried loudly over hi shoulder. Any time he likes, tell him. 
While Mr Bloom stood weighing the point and about to smile he strode o jerkily. 
RAISING THE WIND
—Nulla bona, Jack, he said, raising his hand to his chin. I’m u to here. I’ve been through the hoop myself. I was looking for a fellow to bac a bill for me no later than last week. Sorry, Jack. You must take the will fo the deed. With a heart and a half if I could raise the wind anyhow. 
J. J. O’Molloy pulled a long face and walked on silently. They caught up on th others and walked abreast. 
—When they have eaten the brawn and the bread and wiped their twent fingers in the paper the bread was wrapped in they go nearer to the railings. 
—Something for you, the professor explained to Myles Crawford. Two ol Dublin women on the top of Nelson’s pillar. 
SOME COLUMN!—THAT’S WHAT WADDLER ONE SAID
—That’s new, Myles Crawford said. That’s copy. Out for the waxies’Dargle. Two old trickies, what? 
—But they are afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. They see th roofs and argue about where the different churches are: Rathmines’ blue dome, Adam and Eve’s, saint Laurence O’Toole’s. But it makes them giddy to look s they pull up their skirts... 
THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES
—Easy all, Myles Crawford said. No poetic licence. We’re in th archdiocese here. 
—And settle down on their striped petticoats, peering up at the statue o the onehandled adulterer. 
—Onehandled adulterer! the professor cried. I like that. I see the idea. I see what you mean. 
DAMES DONATE DUBLIN’S CITS SPEEDPILLS VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF
—It gives them a crick in their necks, Stephen said, and they are to tired to look up or down or to speak. They put the bag of plums between the and eat the plums out of it, one after another, wiping off with thei handkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spitting th plumstones slowly out between the railings. 
He gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close. Lenehan and Mr O’Madden Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooney’s. 
—Finished? Myles Crawford said. So long as they do no worse. 
SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON PROBOSCIS. SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS. ITHACANS VOW PEN IS CHAMP. 
—You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of Gorgias, the sophist. It is said of him that none could tell if he were bitterer agains others or against himself. He was the son of a noble and a bondwoman. And h wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beauty from Argive Helen an handed it to poor Penelope. 
Poor Penelope. Penelope Rich. 
They made ready to cross O’Connell street. 
HELLO THERE, CENTRAL! 
At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless trolleys stoo in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham, Blackrock, Kingstow and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend and Sandymount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines, all still, becalmed in short circuit. Hackney cars, cabs, delivery waggons, mailvans, private broughams, aerate mineral water floats with rattling crates of bottles, rattled, rolled, horsedrawn, rapidly. 
WHAT?—AND LIKEWISE—WHERE? 
—But what do you call it? Myles Crawford asked. Where did they get th plums? 
VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE. SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES. 
—Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide t reflect. Call it, let me see. Call it: deus nobis hæc otia fecit. 
—No, Stephen said. I call it A Pisgah Sight of Palestine or Th Parable of The Plums. 
—I see, the professor said. 
He laughed richly. 
—I see, he said again with new pleasure. Moses and the promised land. W gave him that idea, he added to J. J. O’Molloy. 
HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY
J. J. O’Molloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and held hi peace. 
—I see, the professor said. 
He halted on sir John Gray’s pavement island and peered aloft at Nelson throug the meshes of his wry smile. 
DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. ANNE WIMBLES, FL WANGLES—YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM? 
—Onehandled adulterer, he said smiling grimly. That tickles me, I mus say. 
—Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almighty’ truth was known. 




 
IN THE HEART OF THE HIBERNIAN METROPOLIS
Before Nelson’s pillar trams slowed, shunted, changed trolley, started fo Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Clonskea, Rathgar and Terenure, Palmersto Park and upper Rathmines, Sandymount Green, Rathmines, Ringsend and Sandymoun Tower, Harold’s Cross. The hoarse Dublin United Tramway Company’s timekeepe bawled them off: 
—Rathgar and Terenure! 
—Come on, Sandymount Green! 
Right and left parallel clanging ringing a doubledecker and a singledeck move from their railheads, swerved to the down line, glided parallel. 
—Start, Palmerston Park! 
THE WEARER OF THE CROWN
Under the porch of the general post office shoeblacks called and polished. Parked in North Prince’s street His Majesty’s vermilion mailcars, bearing o their sides the royal initials, E. R., received loudly flung sacks of letters, postcards, lettercards, parcels, insured and paid, for local, provincial, British and overseas delivery. 
GENTLEMEN OF THE PRESS
Grossbooted draymen rolled barrels dullthudding out of Prince’s stores an bumped them up on the brewery float. On the brewery float bumped dullthuddin barrels rolled by grossbooted draymen out of Prince’s stores. 
—There it is, Red Murray said. Alexander Keyes. 
—Just cut it out, will you? Mr Bloom said, and I’ll take it round to th Telegraph office. 
The door of Ruttledge’s office creaked again. Davy Stephens, minute in a larg capecoat, a small felt hat crowning his ringlets, passed out with a roll o papers under his cape, a king’s courier. 
Red Murray’s long shears sliced out the advertisement from the newspaper i four clean strokes. Scissors and paste. 
—I’ll go through the printingworks, Mr Bloom said, taking the cut square. 
—Of course, if he wants a par, Red Murray said earnestly, a pen behin his ear, we can do him one. 
—Right, Mr Bloom said with a nod. I’ll rub that in. 
We. 
WILLIAM BRAYDEN, ESQUIRE, OF OAKLANDS, SANDYMOUNT
Red Murray touched Mr Bloom’s arm with the shears and whispered: 
—Brayden. 
Mr Bloom turned and saw the liveried porter raise his lettered cap as a statel figure entered between the newsboards of the Weekly Freeman and Nationa Press and the Freeman’s Journal and National Press. Dullthuddin Guinness’s barrels. It passed statelily up the staircase, steered by a umbrella, a solemn beardframed face. The broadcloth back ascended each step:back. All his brains are in the nape of his neck, Simon Dedalus says. Welts o flesh behind on him. Fat folds of neck, fat, neck, fat, neck. 
—Don’t you think his face is like Our Saviour? Red Murray whispered. 
The door of Ruttledge’s office whispered: ee: cree. They always build one doo opposite another for the wind to. Way in. Way out. 
Our Saviour: beardframed oval face: talking in the dusk. Mary, Martha. Steere by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor. 
—Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said. 
—Yes, Red Murray agreed. But Mario was said to be the picture of Ou Saviour. 
Jesusmario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. Hand on his heart. I Martha. 
Co-ome thou lost one, Co-ome thou dear one! 
THE CROZIER AND THE PEN
—His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely. 
They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. Neck. 
A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter and steppe off posthaste with a word: 
—Freeman! 
Mr Bloom said slowly: 
—Well, he is one of our saviours also. 
A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as he passed i through a sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage, along the no reverberating boards. But will he save the circulation? Thumping. Thumping. 
He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewn packin paper. Through a lane of clanking drums he made his way towards Nannetti’ reading closet. 
WITH UNFEIGNED REGRET IT IS WE ANNOUNCE THE DISSOLUTION OF A MOST RESPECTE DUBLIN BURGESS
Hynes here too: account of the funeral probably. Thumping. Thump. This mornin the remains of the late Mr Patrick Dignam. Machines. Smash a man to atoms i they got him caught. Rule the world today. His machineries are pegging awa too. Like these, got out of hand: fermenting. Working away, tearing away. An that old grey rat tearing to get in. 
HOW A GREAT DAILY ORGAN IS TURNED OUT
Mr Bloom halted behind the foreman’s spare body, admiring a glossy crown. 
Strange he never saw his real country. Ireland my country. Member for Colleg green. He boomed that workaday worker tack for all it was worth. It’s the ad and side features sell a weekly, not the stale news in the official gazette. Queen Anne is dead. Published by authority in the year one thousand and. Demesne situate in the townland of Rosenallis, barony of Tinnahinch. To al whom it may concern schedule pursuant to statute showing return of number o mules and jennets exported from Ballina. Nature notes. Cartoons. Phil Blake’ weekly Pat and Bull story. Uncle Toby’s page for tiny tots. Country bumpkin’ queries. Dear Mr Editor, what is a good cure for flatulence? I’d like tha part. Learn a lot teaching others. The personal note. M. A. P. Mainly al pictures. Shapely bathers on golden strand. World’s biggest balloon. Doubl marriage of sisters celebrated. Two bridegrooms laughing heartily at eac other. Cuprani too, printer. More Irish than the Irish. 
The machines clanked in threefour time. Thump, thump, thump. Now if he go paralysed there and no-one knew how to stop them they’d clank on and on th same, print it over and over and up and back. Monkeydoodle the whole thing. Want a cool head. 
—Well, get it into the evening edition, councillor, Hynes said. 
Soon be calling him my lord mayor. Long John is backing him, they say. 
The foreman, without answering, scribbled press on a corner of the sheet an made a sign to a typesetter. He handed the sheet silently over the dirty glas screen. 
—Right: thanks, Hynes said moving off. 
Mr Bloom stood in his way. 
—If you want to draw the cashier is just going to lunch, he said, pointing backward with his thumb. 
—Did you? Hynes asked. 
—Mm, Mr Bloom said. Look sharp and you’ll catch him. 
—Thanks, old man, Hynes said. I’ll tap him too. 
He hurried on eagerly towards the Freeman’s Journal. 
Three bob I lent him in Meagher’s. Three weeks. Third hint. 
WE SEE THE CANVASSER AT WORK
Mr Bloom laid his cutting on Mr Nannetti’s desk. 
—Excuse me, councillor, he said. This ad, you see. Keyes, you remember? 
Mr Nannetti considered the cutting awhile and nodded. 
—He wants it in for July, Mr Bloom said. 
The foreman moved his pencil towards it. 
—But wait, Mr Bloom said. He wants it changed. Keyes, you see. He want two keys at the top. 
Hell of a racket they make. He doesn’t hear it. Nannan. Iron nerves. Maybe h understands what I. 
The foreman turned round to hear patiently and, lifting an elbow, began t scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket. 
—Like that, Mr Bloom said, crossing his forefingers at the top. 
Let him take that in first. 
Mr Bloom, glancing sideways up from the cross he had made, saw the foreman’ sallow face, think he has a touch of jaundice, and beyond the obedient reel feeding in huge webs of paper. Clank it. Clank it. Miles of it unreeled. Wha becomes of it after? O, wrap up meat, parcels: various uses, thousand and on things. 
Slipping his words deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drew swiftly o the scarred woodwork. 
HOUSE OF KEY(E)S
—Like that, see. Two crossed keys here. A circle. Then here the name. Alexander Keyes, tea, wine and spirit merchant. So on. 
Better not teach him his own business. 
—You know yourself, councillor, just what he wants. Then round the top i leaded: the house of keys. You see? Do you think that’s a good idea? 
The foreman moved his scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratched ther quietly. 
—The idea, Mr Bloom said, is the house of keys. You know, councillor, th Manx parliament. Innuendo of home rule. Tourists, you know, from the isle o Man. Catches the eye, you see. Can you do that? 
I could ask him perhaps about how to pronounce that voglio. But then i he didn’t know only make it awkward for him. Better not. 
—We can do that, the foreman said. Have you the design? 
—I can get it, Mr Bloom said. It was in a Kilkenny paper. He has a hous there too. I’ll just run out and ask him. Well, you can do that and just  little par calling attention. You know the usual. Highclass licensed premises. Longfelt want. So on. 
The foreman thought for an instant. 
—We can do that, he said. Let him give us a three months’ renewal. 
A typesetter brought him a limp galleypage. He began to check it silently. M Bloom stood by, hearing the loud throbs of cranks, watching the silen typesetters at their cases. 
ORTHOGRAPHICAL
Want to be sure of his spelling. Proof fever. Martin Cunningham forgot to giv us his spellingbee conundrum this morning. It is amusing to view the unpar on ar alleled embarra two ars is it? double ess ment of a harassed pedlar whil gauging au the symmetry with a y of a peeled pear under a cemetery wall. Silly, isn’t it? Cemetery put in of course on account of the symmetry. 
I should have said when he clapped on his topper. Thank you. I ought to hav said something about an old hat or something. No. I could have said. Looks a good as new now. See his phiz then. 
Sllt. The nethermost deck of the first machine jogged forward its flyboard wit sllt the first batch of quirefolded papers. Sllt. Almost human the way it sll to call attention. Doing its level best to speak. That door too sllt creaking, asking to be shut. Everything speaks in its own way. Sllt. 
NOTED CHURCHMAN AN OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTOR
The foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly, saying: 
—Wait. Where’s the archbishop’s letter? It’s to be repeated in th Telegraph. Where’s what’s his name? 
He looked about him round his loud unanswering machines. 
—Monks, sir? a voice asked from the castingbox. 
—Ay. Where’s Monks? 
—Monks! 
Mr Bloom took up his cutting. Time to get out. 
—Then I’ll get the design, Mr Nannetti, he said, and you’ll give it  good place I know. 
—Monks! 
—Yes, sir. 
Three months’ renewal. Want to get some wind off my chest first. Try it anyhow. Rub in August: good idea: horseshow month. Ballsbridge. Tourists over for th show. 
A DAYFATHER
He walked on through the caseroom passing an old man, bowed, spectacled, aproned. Old Monks, the dayfather. Queer lot of stuff he must have put throug his hands in his time: obituary notices, pubs’ ads, speeches, divorce suits, found drowned. Nearing the end of his tether now. Sober serious man with a bi in the savingsbank I’d say. Wife a good cook and washer. Daughter working th machine in the parlour. Plain Jane, no damn nonsense. 
AND IT WAS THE FEAST OF THE PASSOVER
He stayed in his walk to watch a typesetter neatly distributing type. Reads i backwards first. Quickly he does it. Must require some practice that. mangi kcirtaP. Poor papa with his hagadah book, reading backwards with his finger t me. Pessach. Next year in Jerusalem. Dear, O dear! All that long business abou that brought us out of the land of Egypt and into the house of bondag alleluia. Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu. No, that’s the other. Then th twelve brothers, Jacob’s sons. And then the lamb and the cat and the dog an the stick and the water and the butcher. And then the angel of death kills th butcher and he kills the ox and the dog kills the cat. Sounds a bit silly til you come to look into it well. Justice it means but it’s everybody eatin everyone else. That’s what life is after all. How quickly he does that job. Practice makes perfect. Seems to see with his fingers. 
Mr Bloom passed on out of the clanking noises through the gallery on to th landing. Now am I going to tram it out all the way and then catch him ou perhaps. Better phone him up first. Number? Yes. Same as Citron’s house. Twentyeight. Twentyeight double four. 
ONLY ONCE MORE THAT SOAP
He went down the house staircase. Who the deuce scrawled all over those wall with matches? Looks as if they did it for a bet. Heavy greasy smell ther always is in those works. Lukewarm glue in Thom’s next door when I was there. 
He took out his handkerchief to dab his nose. Citronlemon? Ah, the soap I pu there. Lose it out of that pocket. Putting back his handkerchief he took ou the soap and stowed it away, buttoned, into the hip pocket of his trousers. 
What perfume does your wife use? I could go home still: tram: something  forgot. Just to see: before: dressing. No. Here. No. 
A sudden screech of laughter came from the Evening Telegraph office. Know who that is. What’s up? Pop in a minute to phone. Ned Lambert it is. 
He entered softly. 
ERIN, GREEN GEM OF THE SILVER SEA
—The ghost walks, professor MacHugh murmured softly, biscuitfully to th dusty windowpane. 
Mr Dedalus, staring from the empty fireplace at Ned Lambert’s quizzing face, asked of it sourly: 
—Agonising Christ, wouldn’t it give you a heartburn on your arse? 
Ned Lambert, seated on the table, read on: 
—Or again, note the meanderings of some purling rill as it babbles o its way, tho’ quarrelling with the stony obstacles, to the tumbling waters o Neptune’s blue domain, ’mid mossy banks, fanned by gentlest zephyrs, played o by the glorious sunlight or ’neath the shadows cast o’er its pensive bosom b the overarching leafage of the giants of the forest. What about that, Simon? he asked over the fringe of his newspaper. How’s that for high? 
—Changing his drink, Mr Dedalus said. 
Ned Lambert, laughing, struck the newspaper on his knees, repeating: 
—The pensive bosom and the overarsing leafage. O boys! O boys! 
—And Xenophon looked upon Marathon, Mr Dedalus said, looking again on th fireplace and to the window, and Marathon looked on the sea. 
—That will do, professor MacHugh cried from the window. I don’t want t hear any more of the stuff. 
He ate off the crescent of water biscuit he had been nibbling and, hungered, made ready to nibble the biscuit in his other hand. 
High falutin stuff. Bladderbags. Ned Lambert is taking a day off I see. Rathe upsets a man’s day, a funeral does. He has influence they say. Old Chatterton, the vicechancellor, is his granduncle or his greatgranduncle. Close on ninet they say. Subleader for his death written this long time perhaps. Living t spite them. Might go first himself. Johnny, make room for your uncle. The righ honourable Hedges Eyre Chatterton. Daresay he writes him an odd shaky cheque o two on gale days. Windfall when he kicks out. Alleluia. 
—Just another spasm, Ned Lambert said. 
—What is it? Mr Bloom asked. 
—A recently discovered fragment of Cicero, professor MacHugh answere with pomp of tone. Our lovely land. 
SHORT BUT TO THE POINT
—Whose land? Mr Bloom said simply. 
—Most pertinent question, the professor said between his chews. With a accent on the whose. 
—Dan Dawson’s land Mr Dedalus said. 
—Is it his speech last night? Mr Bloom asked. 
Ned Lambert nodded. 
—But listen to this, he said. 
The doorknob hit Mr Bloom in the small of the back as the door was pushed in. 
—Excuse me, J. J. O’Molloy said, entering. 
Mr Bloom moved nimbly aside. 
—I beg yours, he said. 
—Good day, Jack. 
—Come in. Come in. 
—Good day. 
—How are you, Dedalus? 
—Well. And yourself? 
J. J. O’Molloy shook his head. 
SAD
Cleverest fellow at the junior bar he used to be. Decline, poor chap. Tha hectic flush spells finis for a man. Touch and go with him. What’s in the wind, I wonder. Money worry. 
—Or again if we but climb the serried mountain peaks. 
—You’re looking extra. 
—Is the editor to be seen? J. J. O’Molloy asked, looking towards th inner door. 
—Very much so, professor MacHugh said. To be seen and heard. He’s in hi sanctum with Lenehan. 
J. J. O’Molloy strolled to the sloping desk and began to turn back the pin pages of the file. 
Practice dwindling. A mighthavebeen. Losing heart. Gambling. Debts of honour. Reaping the whirlwind. Used to get good retainers from D. and T. Fitzgerald. Their wigs to show the grey matter. Brains on their sleeve like the statue i Glasnevin. Believe he does some literary work for the Express wit Gabriel Conroy. Wellread fellow. Myles Crawford began on th Independent. Funny the way those newspaper men veer about when they ge wind of a new opening. Weathercocks. Hot and cold in the same breath. Wouldn’ know which to believe. One story good till you hear the next. Go for on another baldheaded in the papers and then all blows over. Hail fellow well me the next moment. 
—Ah, listen to this for God’ sake, Ned Lambert pleaded. Or again if w but climb the serried mountain peaks... 
—Bombast! the professor broke in testily. Enough of the inflated windbag! 
—Peaks, Ned Lambert went on, towering high on high, to bath our souls, as it were... 
—Bathe his lips, Mr Dedalus said. Blessed and eternal God! Yes? Is h taking anything for it? 
—As ’twere, in the peerless panorama of Ireland’s portfolio, unmatched, despite their wellpraised prototypes in other vaunted prize regions, for very beauty, of bosky grove and undulating plain and luscious pasturelan of vernal green, steeped in the transcendent translucent glow of our mil mysterious Irish twilight... 
HIS NATIVE DORIC
—The moon, professor MacHugh said. He forgot Hamlet. 
—That mantles the vista far and wide and wait till the glowing orb o the moon shine forth to irradiate her silver effulgence... 
—O! Mr Dedalus cried, giving vent to a hopeless groan. Shite and onions!That’ll do, Ned. Life is too short. 
He took off his silk hat and, blowing out impatiently his bushy moustache, welshcombed his hair with raking fingers. 
Ned Lambert tossed the newspaper aside, chuckling with delight. An instan after a hoarse bark of laughter burst over professor MacHugh’s unshave blackspectacled face. 
—Doughy Daw! he cried. 
WHAT WETHERUP SAID
All very fine to jeer at it now in cold print but it goes down like hot cak that stuff. He was in the bakery line too, wasn’t he? Why they call him Dough Daw. Feathered his nest well anyhow. Daughter engaged to that chap in th inland revenue office with the motor. Hooked that nicely. Entertainments. Ope house. Big blowout. Wetherup always said that. Get a grip of them by th stomach. 
The inner door was opened violently and a scarlet beaked face, crested by  comb of feathery hair, thrust itself in. The bold blue eyes stared about the and the harsh voice asked: 
—What is it? 
—And here comes the sham squire himself! professor MacHugh said grandly. 
—Getonouthat, you bloody old pedagogue! the editor said in recognition. 
—Come, Ned, Mr Dedalus said, putting on his hat. I must get a drink afte that. 
—Drink! the editor cried. No drinks served before mass. 
—Quite right too, Mr Dedalus said, going out. Come on, Ned. 
Ned Lambert sidled down from the table. The editor’s blue eyes roved towards M Bloom’s face, shadowed by a smile. 
—Will you join us, Myles? Ned Lambert asked. 
MEMORABLE BATTLES RECALLED
—North Cork militia! the editor cried, striding to the mantelpiece. W won every time! North Cork and Spanish officers! 
—Where was that, Myles? Ned Lambert asked with a reflective glance at hi toecaps. 
—In Ohio! the editor shouted. 
—So it was, begad, Ned Lambert agreed. 
Passing out he whispered to J. J. O’Molloy: 
—Incipient jigs. Sad case. 
—Ohio! the editor crowed in high treble from his uplifted scarlet face. My Ohio! 
—A perfect cretic! the professor said. Long, short and long. 
O, HARP EOLIAN! 
He took a reel of dental floss from his waistcoat pocket and, breaking off  piece, twanged it smartly between two and two of his resonant unwashed teeth. 
—Bingbang, bangbang. 
Mr Bloom, seeing the coast clear, made for the inner door. 
—Just a moment, Mr Crawford, he said. I just want to phone about an ad. 
He went in. 
—What about that leader this evening? professor MacHugh asked, coming t the editor and laying a firm hand on his shoulder. 
—That’ll be all right, Myles Crawford said more calmly. Never you fret. Hello, Jack. That’s all right. 
—Good day, Myles, J. J. O’Molloy said, letting the pages he held sli limply back on the file. Is that Canada swindle case on today? 
The telephone whirred inside. 
—Twentyeight... No, twenty... Double four... Yes. 
SPOT THE WINNER
Lenehan came out of the inner office with Sport’s tissues. 
—Who wants a dead cert for the Gold cup? he asked. Sceptre with O. Madde up. 
He tossed the tissues on to the table. 
Screams of newsboys barefoot in the hall rushed near and the door was flun open. 
—Hush, Lenehan said. I hear feetstoops. 
Professor MacHugh strode across the room and seized the cringing urchin by th collar as the others scampered out of the hall and down the steps. The tissue rustled up in the draught, floated softly in the air blue scrawls and under th table came to earth. 
—It wasn’t me, sir. It was the big fellow shoved me, sir. 
—Throw him out and shut the door, the editor said. There’s a hurrican blowing. 
Lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the floor, grunting as he stoope twice. 
—Waiting for the racing special, sir, the newsboy said. It was Pa Farrell shoved me, sir. 
He pointed to two faces peering in round the doorframe. 
—Him, sir. 
—Out of this with you, professor MacHugh said gruffly. 
He hustled the boy out and banged the door to. 
J. J. O’Molloy turned the files crackingly over, murmuring, seeking: 
—Continued on page six, column four. 
—Yes, Evening Telegraph here, Mr Bloom phoned from the inne office. Is the boss...? Yes, Telegraph... To where? Aha! Which auctio rooms?... Aha! I see... Right. I’ll catch him. 
A COLLISION ENSUES
The bell whirred again as he rang off. He came in quickly and bumped agains Lenehan who was struggling up with the second tissue. 
—Pardon, monsieur, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant an making a grimace. 
—My fault, Mr Bloom said, suffering his grip. Are you hurt? I’m in  hurry. 
—Knee, Lenehan said. 
He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee: 
—The accumulation of the anno Domini. 
—Sorry, Mr Bloom said. 
He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused. J. J. O’Molloy slapped th heavy pages over. The noise of two shrill voices, a mouthorgan, echoed in th bare hallway from the newsboys squatted on the doorsteps: 
We are the boys of Wexfor Who fought with heart and hand. 
EXIT BLOOM
—I’m just running round to Bachelor’s walk, Mr Bloom said, about this a of Keyes’s. Want to fix it up. They tell me he’s round there in Dillon’s. 
He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces. The editor who, leanin against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand, suddenly stretche forth an arm amply. 
—Begone! he said. The world is before you. 
—Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out. 
J. J. O’Molloy took the tissues from Lenehan’s hand and read them, blowing the apart gently, without comment. 
—He’ll get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through hi blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Look at the young scamps after him. 
—Show. Where? Lenehan cried, running to the window. 
A STREET CORTÈGE
Both smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr Bloom’ wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, a tail of whit bowknots. 
—Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, an you’ll kick. O, my rib risible! Taking off his flat spaugs and the walk. Smal nines. Steal upon larks. 
He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor on sliding feet pas the fireplace to J. J. O’Molloy who placed the tissues in his receiving hands. 
—What’s that? Myles Crawford said with a start. Where are the other tw gone? 
—Who? the professor said, turning. They’re gone round to the Oval for  drink. Paddy Hooper is there with Jack Hall. Came over last night. 
—Come on then, Myles Crawford said. Where’s my hat? 
He walked jerkily into the office behind, parting the vent of his jacket, jingling his keys in his back pocket. They jingled then in the air and agains the wood as he locked his desk drawer. 
—He’s pretty well on, professor MacHugh said in a low voice. 
—Seems to be, J. J. O’Molloy said, taking out a cigarettecase i murmuring meditation, but it is not always as it seems. Who has the mos matches? 
THE CALUMET OF PEACE
He offered a cigarette to the professor and took one himself. Lenehan promptl struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes in turn. J. J. O’Molloy opene his case again and offered it. 
—Thanky vous, Lenehan said, helping himself. 
The editor came from the inner office, a straw hat awry on his brow. H declaimed in song, pointing sternly at professor MacHugh: 
’Twas rank and fame that tempted thee,\n’Twas empire charmed thy heart. 
The professor grinned, locking his long lips. 
—Eh? You bloody old Roman empire? Myles Crawford said. 
He took a cigarette from the open case. Lenehan, lighting it for him with quic grace, said: 
—Silence for my brandnew riddle! 
—Imperium romanum, J. J. O’Molloy said gently. It sounds noble than British or Brixton. The word reminds one somehow of fat in the fire. 
Myles Crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling. 
—That’s it, he said. We are the fat. You and I are the fat in the fire. We haven’t got the chance of a snowball in hell. 
THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME
—Wait a moment, professor MacHugh said, raising two quiet claws. W mustn’t be led away by words, by sounds of words. We think of Rome, imperial, imperious, imperative. 
He extended elocutionary arms from frayed stained shirtcuffs, pausing: 
—What was their civilisation? Vast, I allow: but vile. Cloacae: sewers. The Jews in the wilderness and on the mountaintop said: It is meet to b here. Let us build an altar to Jehovah. The Roman, like the Englishman wh follows in his footsteps, brought to every new shore on which he set his foo (on our shore he never set it) only his cloacal obsession. He gazed about hi in his toga and he said: It is meet to be here. Let us construct  watercloset. 
—Which they accordingly did do, Lenehan said. Our old ancient ancestors, as we read in the first chapter of Guinness’s, were partial to the runnin stream. 
—They were nature’s gentlemen, J. J. O’Molloy murmured. But we have als Roman law. 
—And Pontius Pilate is its prophet, professor MacHugh responded. 
—Do you know that story about chief baron Palles? J. J. O’Molloy asked. It was at the royal university dinner. Everything was going swimmingly ... 
—First my riddle, Lenehan said. Are you ready? 
Mr O’Madden Burke, tall in copious grey of Donegal tweed, came in from th hallway. Stephen Dedalus, behind him, uncovered as he entered. 
—Entrez, mes enfants! Lenehan cried. 
—I escort a suppliant, Mr O’Madden Burke said melodiously. Youth led b Experience visits Notoriety. 
—How do you do? the editor said, holding out a hand. Come in. You governor is just gone. 
??? 
Lenehan said to all: 
—Silence! What opera resembles a railwayline? Reflect, ponder, excogitate, reply. 
Stephen handed over the typed sheets, pointing to the title and signature. 
—Who? the editor asked. 
Bit torn off. 
—Mr Garrett Deasy, Stephen said. 
—That old pelters, the editor said. Who tore it? Was he short taken? 
On swift sail flamin From storm and sout He comes, pale vampire, Mouth to my mouth. 
—Good day, Stephen, the professor said, coming to peer over thei shoulders. Foot and mouth? Are you turned...? 
Bullockbefriending bard. 
SHINDY IN WELLKNOWN RESTAURANT
—Good day, sir, Stephen answered blushing. The letter is not mine. M Garrett Deasy asked me to... 
—O, I know him, Myles Crawford said, and I knew his wife too. Th bloodiest old tartar God ever made. By Jesus, she had the foot and mout disease and no mistake! The night she threw the soup in the waiter’s face i the Star and Garter. Oho! 
A woman brought sin into the world. For Helen, the runaway wife of Menelaus, ten years the Greeks. O’Rourke, prince of Breffni. 
—Is he a widower? Stephen asked. 
—Ay, a grass one, Myles Crawford said, his eye running down th typescript. Emperor’s horses. Habsburg. An Irishman saved his life on th ramparts of Vienna. Don’t you forget! Maximilian Karl O’Donnell, graf vo Tirconnell in Ireland. Sent his heir over to make the king an Austria fieldmarshal now. Going to be trouble there one day. Wild geese. O yes, ever time. Don’t you forget that! 
—The moot point is did he forget it, J. J. O’Molloy said quietly, turnin a horseshoe paperweight. Saving princes is a thank you job. 
Professor MacHugh turned on him. 
—And if not? he said. 
—I’ll tell you how it was, Myles Crawford began. A Hungarian it was on day... 
LOST CAUSES NOBLE MARQUESS MENTIONED
—We were always loyal to lost causes, the professor said. Success for u is the death of the intellect and of the imagination. We were never loyal t the successful. We serve them. I teach the blatant Latin language. I speak th tongue of a race the acme of whose mentality is the maxim: time is money. Material domination. Dominus! Lord! Where is the spirituality? Lor Jesus? Lord Salisbury? A sofa in a westend club. But the Greek! 
KYRIE ELEISON! 
A smile of light brightened his darkrimmed eyes, lengthened his long lips. 
—The Greek! he said again. Kyrios! Shining word! The vowels th Semite and the Saxon know not. Kyrie! The radiance of the intellect.  ought to profess Greek, the language of the mind. Kyrie eleison! Th closetmaker and the cloacamaker will never be lords of our spirit. We are lieg subjects of the catholic chivalry of Europe that foundered at Trafalgar and o the empire of the spirit, not an imperium, that went under with th Athenian fleets at Aegospotami. Yes, yes. They went under. Pyrrhus, misled b an oracle, made a last attempt to retrieve the fortunes of Greece. Loyal to  lost cause. 
He strode away from them towards the window. 
—They went forth to battle, Mr O’Madden Burke said greyly, but the always fell. 
—Boohoo! Lenehan wept with a little noise. Owing to a brick received i the latter half of the matinée. Poor, poor, poor Pyrrhus! 
He whispered then near Stephen’s ear: 
LENEHAN’S LIMERICK
—There’s a ponderous pundit MacHug Who wears goggles of ebony hue. As he mostly sees doubl To wear them why trouble?I can’t see the Joe Miller. Can you? 
In mourning for Sallust, Mulligan says. Whose mother is beastly dead. 
Myles Crawford crammed the sheets into a sidepocket. 
—That’ll be all right, he said. I’ll read the rest after. That’ll be al right. 
Lenehan extended his hands in protest. 
—But my riddle! he said. What opera is like a railwayline? 
—Opera? Mr O’Madden Burke’s sphinx face reriddled. 
Lenehan announced gladly: 
—The Rose of Castile. See the wheeze? Rows of cast steel. Gee! 
He poked Mr O’Madden Burke mildly in the spleen. Mr O’Madden Burke fell bac with grace on his umbrella, feigning a gasp. 
—Help! he sighed. I feel a strong weakness. 
Lenehan, rising to tiptoe, fanned his face rapidly with the rustling tissues. 
The professor, returning by way of the files, swept his hand across Stephen’ and Mr O’Madden Burke’s loose ties. 
—Paris, past and present, he said. You look like communards. 
—Like fellows who had blown up the Bastile, J. J. O’Molloy said in quie mockery. Or was it you shot the lord lieutenant of Finland between you? Yo look as though you had done the deed. General Bobrikoff. 
OMNIUM GATHERUM
—We were only thinking about it, Stephen said. 
—All the talents, Myles Crawford said. Law, the classics... 
—The turf, Lenehan put in. 
—Literature, the press. 
—If Bloom were here, the professor said. The gentle art of advertisement. 
—And Madam Bloom, Mr O’Madden Burke added. The vocal muse. Dublin’s prim favourite. 
Lenehan gave a loud cough. 
—Ahem! he said very softly. O, for a fresh of breath air! I caught a col in the park. The gate was open. 
“YOU CAN DO IT!” 
The editor laid a nervous hand on Stephen’s shoulder. 
—I want you to write something for me, he said. Something with a bite i it. You can do it. I see it in your face. In the lexicon of youth... 
See it in your face. See it in your eye. Lazy idle little schemer. 
—Foot and mouth disease! the editor cried in scornful invective. Grea nationalist meeting in Borris-in-Ossory. All balls! Bulldosing the public! Giv them something with a bite in it. Put us all into it, damn its soul. Father, Son and Holy Ghost and Jakes M’Carthy. 
—We can all supply mental pabulum, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
Stephen raised his eyes to the bold unheeding stare. 
—He wants you for the pressgang, J. J. O’Molloy said. 
THE GREAT GALLAHER
—You can do it, Myles Crawford repeated, clenching his hand in emphasis. Wait a minute. We’ll paralyse Europe as Ignatius Gallaher used to say when h was on the shaughraun, doing billiardmarking in the Clarence. Gallaher, tha was a pressman for you. That was a pen. You know how he made his mark? I’l tell you. That was the smartest piece of journalism ever known. That was i eightyone, sixth of May, time of the invincibles, murder in the Phoenix park, before you were born, I suppose. I’ll show you. 
He pushed past them to the files. 
—Look at here, he said turning. The New York World cabled for  special. Remember that time? 
Professor MacHugh nodded. 
—New York World, the editor said, excitedly pushing back his stra hat. Where it took place. Tim Kelly, or Kavanagh I mean. Joe Brady and the res of them. Where Skin-the-Goat drove the car. Whole route, see? 
—Skin-the-Goat, Mr O’Madden Burke said. Fitzharris. He has that cabman’ shelter, they say, down there at Butt bridge. Holohan told me. You kno Holohan? 
—Hop and carry one, is it? Myles Crawford said. 
—And poor Gumley is down there too, so he told me, minding stones for th corporation. A night watchman. 
Stephen turned in surprise. 
—Gumley? he said. You don’t say so? A friend of my father’s, is it? 
—Never mind Gumley, Myles Crawford cried angrily. Let Gumley mind th stones, see they don’t run away. Look at here. What did Ignatius Gallaher do?I’ll tell you. Inspiration of genius. Cabled right away. Have you Weekl Freeman of 17 March? Right. Have you got that? 
He flung back pages of the files and stuck his finger on a point. 
—Take page four, advertisement for Bransome’s coffee, let us say. Hav you got that? Right. 
The telephone whirred. 
A DISTANT VOICE
—I’ll answer it, the professor said, going. 
—B is parkgate. Good. 
His finger leaped and struck point after point, vibrating. 
—T is viceregal lodge. C is where murder took place. K is Knockmaroo gate. 
The loose flesh of his neck shook like a cock’s wattles. An illstarched dick jutted up and with a rude gesture he thrust it back into his waistcoat. 
—Hello? Evening Telegraph here... Hello?... Who’s there?... Yes... Yes... Yes. 
—F to P is the route Skin-the-Goat drove the car for an alibi, Inchicore, Roundtown, Windy Arbour, Palmerston Park, Ranelagh. F. A. B. P. Got that? X i Davy’s publichouse in upper Leeson street. 
The professor came to the inner door. 
—Bloom is at the telephone, he said. 
—Tell him go to hell, the editor said promptly. X is Davy’s publichouse, see? 
CLEVER, VERY
—Clever, Lenehan said. Very. 
—Gave it to them on a hot plate, Myles Crawford said, the whole blood history. 
Nightmare from which you will never awake. 
—I saw it, the editor said proudly. I was present. Dick Adams, th besthearted bloody Corkman the Lord ever put the breath of life in, and myself. 
Lenehan bowed to a shape of air, announcing: 
—Madam, I’m Adam. And Able was I ere I saw Elba. 
—History! Myles Crawford cried. The Old Woman of Prince’s street wa there first. There was weeping and gnashing of teeth over that. Out of a advertisement. Gregor Grey made the design for it. That gave him the leg up. Then Paddy Hooper worked Tay Pay who took him on to the Star. Now he’ got in with Blumenfeld. That’s press. That’s talent. Pyatt! He was all thei daddies! 
—The father of scare journalism, Lenehan confirmed, and th brother-in-law of Chris Callinan. 
—Hello?... Are you there?... Yes, he’s here still. Come across yourself. 
—Where do you find a pressman like that now, eh? the editor cried. 
He flung the pages down. 
—Clamn dever, Lenehan said to Mr O’Madden Burke. 
—Very smart, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
Professor MacHugh came from the inner office. 
—Talking about the invincibles, he said, did you see that some hawker were up before the recorder... 
—O yes, J. J. O’Molloy said eagerly. Lady Dudley was walking home throug the park to see all the trees that were blown down by that cyclone last yea and thought she’d buy a view of Dublin. And it turned out to be a commemoratio postcard of Joe Brady or Number One or Skin-the-Goat. Right outside th viceregal lodge, imagine! 
—They’re only in the hook and eye department, Myles Crawford said. Psha!Press and the bar! Where have you a man now at the bar like those fellows, lik Whiteside, like Isaac Butt, like silvertongued O’Hagan. Eh? Ah, blood nonsense. Psha! Only in the halfpenny place. 
His mouth continued to twitch unspeaking in nervous curls of disdain. 
Would anyone wish that mouth for her kiss? How do you know? Why did you writ it then? 
RHYMES AND REASONS
Mouth, south. Is the mouth south someway? Or the south a mouth? Must be some. South, pout, out, shout, drouth. Rhymes: two men dressed the same, looking th same, two by two. 
........................ la tua pac .................. che parlar ti piac Mentre che il vento, come fa, si tace. 
He saw them three by three, approaching girls, in green, in rose, in russet, entwining, per l’aer perso, in mauve, in purple, quella pacific oriafiamma, gold of oriflamme, di rimirar fè più ardenti. But I ol men, penitent, leadenfooted, underdarkneath the night: mouth south: tomb womb. 
—Speak up for yourself, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
SUFFICIENT FOR THE DAY... 
J. J. O’Molloy, smiling palely, took up the gage. 
—My dear Myles, he said, flinging his cigarette aside, you put a fals construction on my words. I hold no brief, as at present advised, for the thir profession qua profession but your Cork legs are running away with you. Why not bring in Henry Grattan and Flood and Demosthenes and Edmund Burke?Ignatius Gallaher we all know and his Chapelizod boss, Harmsworth of th farthing press, and his American cousin of the Bowery guttersheet not t mention Paddy Kelly’s Budget, Pue’s Occurrences and our watchfu friend The Skibbereen Eagle. Why bring in a master of forensic eloquenc like Whiteside? Sufficient for the day is the newspaper thereof. 
LINKS WITH BYGONE DAYS OF YORE
—Grattan and Flood wrote for this very paper, the editor cried in hi face. Irish volunteers. Where are you now? Established 1763. Dr Lucas. Who hav you now like John Philpot Curran? Psha! 
—Well, J. J. O’Molloy said, Bushe K. C., for example. 
—Bushe? the editor said. Well, yes: Bushe, yes. He has a strain of it i his blood. Kendal Bushe or I mean Seymour Bushe. 
—He would have been on the bench long ago, the professor said, only fo .... But no matter. 
J. J. O’Molloy turned to Stephen and said quietly and slowly: 
—One of the most polished periods I think I ever listened to in my lif fell from the lips of Seymour Bushe. It was in that case of fratricide, th Childs murder case. Bushe defended him. 
And in the porches of mine ear did pour. 
By the way how did he find that out? He died in his sleep. Or the other story, beast with two backs? 
—What was that? the professor asked. 
ITALIA, MAGISTRA ARTIUM
—He spoke on the law of evidence, J. J. O’Molloy said, of Roman justic as contrasted with the earlier Mosaic code, the lex talionis. And h cited the Moses of Michelangelo in the vatican. 
—Ha. 
—A few wellchosen words, Lenehan prefaced. Silence! 
Pause. J. J. O’Molloy took out his cigarettecase. 
False lull. Something quite ordinary. 
Messenger took out his matchbox thoughtfully and lit his cigar. 
I have often thought since on looking back over that strange time that it wa that small act, trivial in itself, that striking of that match, that determine the whole aftercourse of both our lives. 
A POLISHED PERIOD
J. J. O’Molloy resumed, moulding his words: 
—He said of it: that stony effigy in frozen music, horned an terrible, of the human form divine, that eternal symbol of wisdom and o prophecy which, if aught that the imagination or the hand of sculptor ha wrought in marble of soultransfigured and of soultransfiguring deserves t live, deserves to live. 
His slim hand with a wave graced echo and fall. 
—Fine! Myles Crawford said at once. 
—The divine afflatus, Mr O’Madden Burke said. 
—You like it? J. J. O’Molloy asked Stephen. 
Stephen, his blood wooed by grace of language and gesture, blushed. He took  cigarette from the case. J. J. O’Molloy offered his case to Myles Crawford. Lenehan lit their cigarettes as before and took his trophy, saying: 
—Muchibus thankibus. 
A MAN OF HIGH MORALE
—Professor Magennis was speaking to me about you, J. J. O’Molloy said t Stephen. What do you think really of that hermetic crowd, the opal hush poets:A. E. the mastermystic? That Blavatsky woman started it. She was a nice old ba of tricks. A. E. has been telling some yankee interviewer that you came to hi in the small hours of the morning to ask him about planes of consciousness. Magennis thinks you must have been pulling A. E.’s leg. He is a man of the ver highest morale, Magennis. 
Speaking about me. What did he say? What did he say? What did he say about me?Don’t ask. 
—No, thanks, professor MacHugh said, waving the cigarettecase aside. Wai a moment. Let me say one thing. The finest display of oratory I ever heard wa a speech made by John F Taylor at the college historical society. Mr Justic Fitzgibbon, the present lord justice of appeal, had spoken and the paper unde debate was an essay (new for those days), advocating the revival of the Iris tongue. 
He turned towards Myles Crawford and said: 
—You know Gerald Fitzgibbon. Then you can imagine the style of hi discourse. 
—He is sitting with Tim Healy, J. J. O’Molloy said, rumour has it, on th Trinity college estates commission. 
—He is sitting with a sweet thing, Myles Crawford said, in a child’ frock. Go on. Well? 
—It was the speech, mark you, the professor said, of a finished orator, full of courteous haughtiness and pouring in chastened diction I will not sa the vials of his wrath but pouring the proud man’s contumely upon the ne movement. It was then a new movement. We were weak, therefore worthless. 
He closed his long thin lips an instant but, eager to be on, raised a outspanned hand to his spectacles and, with trembling thumb and ringfinge touching lightly the black rims, steadied them to a new focus. 
IMPROMPTU
In ferial tone he addressed J. J. O’Molloy: 
—Taylor had come there, you must know, from a sickbed. That he ha prepared his speech I do not believe for there was not even one shorthandwrite in the hall. His dark lean face had a growth of shaggy beard round it. He wor a loose white silk neckcloth and altogether he looked (though he was not)  dying man. 
His gaze turned at once but slowly from J. J. O’Molloy’s towards Stephen’s fac and then bent at once to the ground, seeking. His unglazed linen colla appeared behind his bent head, soiled by his withering hair. Still seeking, h said: 
—When Fitzgibbon’s speech had ended John F Taylor rose to reply. Briefly, as well as I can bring them to mind, his words were these. 
He raised his head firmly. His eyes bethought themselves once more. Witles shellfish swam in the gross lenses to and fro, seeking outlet. 
He began: 
—Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen: Great was my admiration i listening to the remarks addressed to the youth of Ireland a moment since by m learned friend. It seemed to me that I had been transported into a country fa away from this country, into an age remote from this age, that I stood i ancient Egypt and that I was listening to the speech of some highpriest of tha land addressed to the youthful Moses. 
His listeners held their cigarettes poised to hear, their smokes ascending i frail stalks that flowered with his speech. And let our crooked smokes. Noble words coming. Look out. Could you try your hand at it yourself? 
—And it seemed to me that I heard the voice of that Egyptia highpriest raised in a tone of like haughtiness and like pride. I heard hi words and their meaning was revealed to me. 
FROM THE FATHERS
It was revealed to me that those things are good which yet are corrupted whic neither if they were supremely good nor unless they were good could b corrupted. Ah, curse you! That’s saint Augustine. 
—Why will you jews not accept our culture, our religion and ou language? You are a tribe of nomad herdsmen: we are a mighty people. You hav no cities nor no wealth: our cities are hives of humanity and our galleys, trireme and quadrireme, laden with all manner merchandise furrow the waters o the known globe. You have but emerged from primitive conditions: we have  literature, a priesthood, an agelong history and a polity. 
Nile. 
Child, man, effigy. 
By the Nilebank the babemaries kneel, cradle of bulrushes: a man supple i combat: stonehorned, stonebearded, heart of stone. 
—You pray to a local and obscure idol: our temples, majestic an mysterious, are the abodes of Isis and Osiris, of Horus and Ammon Ra. Your serfdom, awe and humbleness: ours thunder and the seas. Israel is weak and fe are her children: Egypt is an host and terrible are her arms. Vagrants an daylabourers are you called: the world trembles at our name. 
A dumb belch of hunger cleft his speech. He lifted his voice above it boldly: 
—But, ladies and gentlemen, had the youthful Moses listened to an accepted that view of life, had he bowed his head and bowed his will and bowe his spirit before that arrogant admonition he would never have brought th chosen people out of their house of bondage, nor followed the pillar of th cloud by day. He would never have spoken with the Eternal amid lightnings o Sinai’s mountaintop nor ever have come down with the light of inspiratio shining in his countenance and bearing in his arms the tables of the law, graven in the language of the outlaw. 
He ceased and looked at them, enjoying a silence. 
OMINOUS—FOR HIM! 
J. J. O’Molloy said not without regret: 
—And yet he died without having entered the land of promise. 
—A—sudden—at—the—moment—though—from—lingering—illness—often—previously—expectorated—demise, Lenehan added. And with a great future behind him. 
The troop of bare feet was heard rushing along the hallway and pattering up th staircase. 
—That is oratory, the professor said uncontradicted.  
Gone with the wind. Hosts at Mullaghmast and Tara of the kings. Miles of ear of porches. The tribune’s words, howled and scattered to the four winds.  people sheltered within his voice. Dead noise. Akasic records of all that eve anywhere wherever was. Love and laud him: me no more. 
I have money. 
—Gentlemen, Stephen said. As the next motion on the agenda paper may  suggest that the house do now adjourn? 
—You take my breath away. It is not perchance a French compliment? M O’Madden Burke asked. ’Tis the hour, methinks, when the winejug, metaphoricall speaking, is most grateful in Ye ancient hostelry. 
—That it be and hereby is resolutely resolved. All that are in favour sa ay, Lenehan announced. The contrary no. I declare it carried. To whic particular boosing shed...? My casting vote is: Mooney’s! 
He led the way, admonishing: 
—We will sternly refuse to partake of strong waters, will we not? Yes, w will not. By no manner of means. 
Mr O’Madden Burke, following close, said with an ally’s lunge of his umbrella: 
—Lay on, Macduff! 
—Chip of the old block! the editor cried, clapping Stephen on th shoulder. Let us go. Where are those blasted keys? 
He fumbled in his pocket pulling out the crushed typesheets. 
—Foot and mouth. I know. That’ll be all right. That’ll go in. Where ar they? That’s all right. 
He thrust the sheets back and went into the inner office. 
LET US HOPE
J. J. O’Molloy, about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen: 
—I hope you will live to see it published. Myles, one moment. 
He went into the inner office, closing the door behind him. 
—Come along, Stephen, the professor said. That is fine, isn’t it? It ha the prophetic vision. Fuit Ilium! The sack of windy Troy. Kingdoms o this world. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen today. 
The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels and rushed ou into the street, yelling: 
—Racing special! 
Dublin. I have much, much to learn. 
They turned to the left along Abbey street. 
—I have a vision too, Stephen said. 
—Yes? the professor said, skipping to get into step. Crawford wil follow. 
Another newsboy shot past them, yelling as he ran: 
—Racing special! 
DEAR DIRTY DUBLIN
Dubliners. 
—Two Dublin vestals, Stephen said, elderly and pious, have lived fift and fiftythree years in Fumbally’s lane. 
—Where is that? the professor asked. 
—Off Blackpitts, Stephen said. 
Damp night reeking of hungry dough. Against the wall. Face glistering tallo under her fustian shawl. Frantic hearts. Akasic records. Quicker, darlint! 
On now. Dare it. Let there be life. 
—They want to see the views of Dublin from the top of Nelson’s pillar. They save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox. They shake ou the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies with the blade of  knife. Two and three in silver and one and seven in coppers. They put on thei bonnets and best clothes and take their umbrellas for fear it may come on t rain. 
—Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said. 
LIFE ON THE RAW
—They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slices of panloaf a the north city diningrooms in Marlborough street from Miss Kate Collins, proprietress... They purchase four and twenty ripe plums from a girl at th foot of Nelson’s pillar to take off the thirst of the brawn. They give tw threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile and begin to waddle slowly u the winding staircase, grunting, encouraging each other, afraid of the dark, panting, one asking the other have you the brawn, praising God and the Blesse Virgin, threatening to come down, peeping at the airslits. Glory be to God. They had no idea it was that high. 
Their names are Anne Kearns and Florence MacCabe. Anne Kearns has the lumbag for which she rubs on Lourdes water, given her by a lady who got a bottlefu from a passionist father. Florence MacCabe takes a crubeen and a bottle o double X for supper every Saturday. 
—Antithesis, the professor said nodding twice. Vestal virgins. I can se them. What’s keeping our friend? 
He turned. 
A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps, scattering in al directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. Hard after them Myle Crawford appeared on the steps, his hat aureoling his scarlet face, talkin with J. J. O’Molloy. 
—Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm. 
He set off again to walk by Stephen’s side. 
RETURN OF BLOOM
—Yes, he said. I see them. 
Mr Bloom, breathless, caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the offices o the Irish Catholic and Dublin Penny Journal, called: 
—Mr Crawford! A moment! 
—Telegraph! Racing special! 
—What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace. 
A newsboy cried in Mr Bloom’s face: 
—Terrible tragedy in Rathmines! A child bit by a bellows! 
INTERVIEW WITH THE EDITOR
—Just this ad, Mr Bloom said, pushing through towards the steps, puffing, and taking the cutting from his pocket. I spoke with Mr Keyes just now. He’l give a renewal for two months, he says. After he’ll see. But he wants a par t call attention in the Telegraph too, the Saturday pink. And he wants i copied if it’s not too late I told councillor Nannetti from the Kilkenn People. I can have access to it in the national library. House of keys, don’t you see? His name is Keyes. It’s a play on the name. But he practicall promised he’d give the renewal. But he wants just a little puff. What will  tell him, Mr Crawford? 
K. M. A. 
—Will you tell him he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said throwing ou his arm for emphasis. Tell him that straight from the stable. 
A bit nervy. Look out for squalls. All off for a drink. Arm in arm. Lenehan’ yachting cap on the cadge beyond. Usual blarney. Wonder is that young Dedalu the moving spirit. Has a good pair of boots on him today. Last time I saw hi he had his heels on view. Been walking in muck somewhere. Careless chap. Wha was he doing in Irishtown? 
—Well, Mr Bloom said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design  suppose it’s worth a short par. He’d give the ad, I think. I’ll tell him... 
K. M. R. I. A. 
—He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles Crawford cried loudly over hi shoulder. Any time he likes, tell him. 
While Mr Bloom stood weighing the point and about to smile he strode o jerkily. 
RAISING THE WIND
—Nulla bona, Jack, he said, raising his hand to his chin. I’m u to here. I’ve been through the hoop myself. I was looking for a fellow to bac a bill for me no later than last week. Sorry, Jack. You must take the will fo the deed. With a heart and a half if I could raise the wind anyhow. 
J. J. O’Molloy pulled a long face and walked on silently. They caught up on th others and walked abreast. 
—When they have eaten the brawn and the bread and wiped their twent fingers in the paper the bread was wrapped in they go nearer to the railings. 
—Something for you, the professor explained to Myles Crawford. Two ol Dublin women on the top of Nelson’s pillar. 
SOME COLUMN!—THAT’S WHAT WADDLER ONE SAID
—That’s new, Myles Crawford said. That’s copy. Out for the waxies’Dargle. Two old trickies, what? 
—But they are afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. They see th roofs and argue about where the different churches are: Rathmines’ blue dome, Adam and Eve’s, saint Laurence O’Toole’s. But it makes them giddy to look s they pull up their skirts... 
THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES
—Easy all, Myles Crawford said. No poetic licence. We’re in th archdiocese here. 
—And settle down on their striped petticoats, peering up at the statue o the onehandled adulterer. 
—Onehandled adulterer! the professor cried. I like that. I see the idea. I see what you mean. 
DAMES DONATE DUBLIN’S CITS SPEEDPILLS VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF
—It gives them a crick in their necks, Stephen said, and they are to tired to look up or down or to speak. They put the bag of plums between the and eat the plums out of it, one after another, wiping off with thei handkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spitting th plumstones slowly out between the railings. 
He gave a sudden loud young laugh as a close. Lenehan and Mr O’Madden Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooney’s. 
—Finished? Myles Crawford said. So long as they do no worse. 
SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON PROBOSCIS. SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS. ITHACANS VOW PEN IS CHAMP. 
—You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of Gorgias, the sophist. It is said of him that none could tell if he were bitterer agains others or against himself. He was the son of a noble and a bondwoman. And h wrote a book in which he took away the palm of beauty from Argive Helen an handed it to poor Penelope. 
Poor Penelope. Penelope Rich. 
They made ready to cross O’Connell street. 
HELLO THERE, CENTRAL! 
At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless trolleys stoo in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham, Blackrock, Kingstow and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend and Sandymount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines, all still, becalmed in short circuit. Hackney cars, cabs, delivery waggons, mailvans, private broughams, aerate mineral water floats with rattling crates of bottles, rattled, rolled, horsedrawn, rapidly. 
WHAT?—AND LIKEWISE—WHERE? 
—But what do you call it? Myles Crawford asked. Where did they get th plums? 
VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE. SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES. 
—Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide t reflect. Call it, let me see. Call it: deus nobis hæc otia fecit. 
—No, Stephen said. I call it A Pisgah Sight of Palestine or Th Parable of The Plums. 
—I see, the professor said. 
He laughed richly. 
—I see, he said again with new pleasure. Moses and the promised land. W gave him that idea, he added to J. J. O’Molloy. 
HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY
J. J. O’Molloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and held hi peace. 
—I see, the professor said. 
He halted on sir John Gray’s pavement island and peered aloft at Nelson throug the meshes of his wry smile. 
DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. ANNE WIMBLES, FL WANGLES—YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM? 
—Onehandled adulterer, he said smiling grimly. That tickles me, I mus say. 
—Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almighty’ truth was known. 


 
Urbane, to comfort them, the quaker librarian purred: 
—And we have, have we not, those priceless pages of Wilhel Meister. A great poet on a great brother poet. A hesitating soul takin arms against a sea of troubles, torn by conflicting doubts, as one sees in rea life. 
He came a step a sinkapace forward on neatsleather creaking and a step backwar a sinkapace on the solemn floor. 
A noiseless attendant setting open the door but slightly made him a noiseles beck. 
—Directly, said he, creaking to go, albeit lingering. The beautifu ineffectual dreamer who comes to grief against hard facts. One always feel that Goethe’s judgments are so true. True in the larger analysis. 
Twicreakingly analysis he corantoed off. Bald, most zealous by the door he gav his large ear all to the attendant’s words: heard them: and was gone. 
Two left. 
—Monsieur de la Palice, Stephen sneered, was alive fifteen minutes befor his death. 
—Have you found those six brave medicals, John Eglinton asked wit elder’s gall, to write Paradise Lost at your dictation? The Sorrow of Satan he calls it. 
Smile. Smile Cranly’s smile. 
First he tickled he Then he patted he Then he passed the female cathete For he was a medica Jolly old medi... 
—I feel you would need one more for Hamlet. Seven is dear to th mystic mind. The shining seven W. B. calls them. 
Glittereyed his rufous skull close to his greencapped desklamp sought the fac bearded amid darkgreener shadow, an ollav, holyeyed. He laughed low: a sizar’ laugh of Trinity: unanswered. 
Orchestral Satan, weeping many a roo Tears such as angels weep. Ed egli avea del cul fatto trombetta. 
He holds my follies hostage. 
Cranly’s eleven true Wicklowmen to free their sireland. Gaptoothed Kathleen, her four beautiful green fields, the stranger in her house. And one more t hail him: ave, rabbi: the Tinahely twelve. In the shadow of the glen h cooees for them. My soul’s youth I gave him, night by night. God speed. Goo hunting. 
Mulligan has my telegram. 
Folly. Persist. 
—Our young Irish bards, John Eglinton censured, have yet to create  figure which the world will set beside Saxon Shakespeare’s Hamlet though  admire him, as old Ben did, on this side idolatry. 
—All these questions are purely academic, Russell oracled out of hi shadow. I mean, whether Hamlet is Shakespeare or James I or Essex. Clergymen’ discussions of the historicity of Jesus. Art has to reveal to us ideas, formless spiritual essences. The supreme question about a work of art is out o how deep a life does it spring. The painting of Gustave Moreau is the paintin of ideas. The deepest poetry of Shelley, the words of Hamlet bring our mind into contact with the eternal wisdom, Plato’s world of ideas. All the rest i the speculation of schoolboys for schoolboys. 
A. E. has been telling some yankee interviewer. Wall, tarnation strike me! 
—The schoolmen were schoolboys first, Stephen said superpolitely. Aristotle was once Plato’s schoolboy. 
—And has remained so, one should hope, John Eglinton sedately said. On can see him, a model schoolboy with his diploma under his arm. 
He laughed again at the now smiling bearded face. 
Formless spiritual. Father, Word and Holy Breath. Allfather, the heavenly man. Hiesos Kristos, magician of the beautiful, the Logos who suffers in us at ever moment. This verily is that. I am the fire upon the altar. I am the sacrificia butter. 
Dunlop, Judge, the noblest Roman of them all, A. E., Arval, the Name Ineffable, in heaven hight: K. H., their master, whose identity is no secret to adepts. Brothers of the great white lodge always watching to see if they can help. Th Christ with the bridesister, moisture of light, born of an ensouled virgin, repentant sophia, departed to the plane of buddhi. The life esoteric is not fo ordinary person. O. P. must work off bad karma first. Mrs Cooper Oakley onc glimpsed our very illustrious sister H. P. B.’s elemental. 
O, fie! Out on’t! Pfuiteufel! You naughtn’t to look, missus, so yo naughtn’t when a lady’s ashowing of her elemental. 
Mr Best entered, tall, young, mild, light. He bore in his hand with grace  notebook, new, large, clean, bright. 
—That model schoolboy, Stephen said, would find Hamlet’s musings abou the afterlife of his princely soul, the improbable, insignificant an undramatic monologue, as shallow as Plato’s. 
John Eglinton, frowning, said, waxing wroth: 
—Upon my word it makes my blood boil to hear anyone compare Aristotl with Plato. 
—Which of the two, Stephen asked, would have banished me from hi commonwealth? 
Unsheathe your dagger definitions. Horseness is the whatness of allhorse. Streams of tendency and eons they worship. God: noise in the street: ver peripatetic. Space: what you damn well have to see. Through spaces smaller tha red globules of man’s blood they creepycrawl after Blake’s buttocks int eternity of which this vegetable world is but a shadow. Hold to the now, th here, through which all future plunges to the past. 
Mr Best came forward, amiable, towards his colleague. 
—Haines is gone, he said. 
—Is he? 
—I was showing him Jubainville’s book. He’s quite enthusiastic, don’t yo know, about Hyde’s Lovesongs of Connacht. I couldn’t bring him in t hear the discussion. He’s gone to Gill’s to buy it. 
Bound thee forth, my booklet, quic To greet the callous public. Writ, I ween, ’twas not my wis In lean unlovely English. 
—The peatsmoke is going to his head, John Eglinton opined. 
We feel in England. Penitent thief. Gone. I smoked his baccy. Green twinklin stone. An emerald set in the ring of the sea. 
—People do not know how dangerous lovesongs can be, the auric egg o Russell warned occultly. The movements which work revolutions in the world ar born out of the dreams and visions in a peasant’s heart on the hillside. Fo them the earth is not an exploitable ground but the living mother. The rarefie air of the academy and the arena produce the sixshilling novel, the musichal song. France produces the finest flower of corruption in Mallarmé but th desirable life is revealed only to the poor of heart, the life of Homer’ Phæacians. 
From these words Mr Best turned an unoffending face to Stephen. 
—Mallarmé, don’t you know, he said, has written those wonderful pros poems Stephen MacKenna used to read to me in Paris. The one abou Hamlet. He says: il se promène, lisant au livre de lui-même, don’t you know, reading the book of himself. He describes Hamle given in a French town, don’t you know, a provincial town. They advertised it. 
His free hand graciously wrote tiny signs in air. 
Hamle o Le Distrai Pièce de Shakespeare
He repeated to John Eglinton’s newgathered frown: 
—Pièce de Shakespeare, don’t you know. It’s so French. The Frenc point of view. Hamlet ou... 
—The absentminded beggar, Stephen ended. 
John Eglinton laughed. 
—Yes, I suppose it would be, he said. Excellent people, no doubt, bu distressingly shortsighted in some matters. 
Sumptuous and stagnant exaggeration of murder. 
—A deathsman of the soul Robert Greene called him, Stephen said. Not fo nothing was he a butcher’s son, wielding the sledded poleaxe and spitting i his palms. Nine lives are taken off for his father’s one. Our Father who art i purgatory. Khaki Hamlets don’t hesitate to shoot. The bloodboltered shambles i act five is a forecast of the concentration camp sung by Mr Swinburne. 
Cranly, I his mute orderly, following battles from afar. 
Whelps and dams of murderous foes whom non But we had spared... 
Between the Saxon smile and yankee yawp. The devil and the deep sea. 
—He will have it that Hamlet is a ghoststory, John Eglinton sai for Mr Best’s behoof. Like the fat boy in Pickwick he wants to make our fles creep. 
List! List! O List! 
My flesh hears him: creeping, hears. 
If thou didst ever... 
—What is a ghost? Stephen said with tingling energy. One who has fade into impalpability through death, through absence, through change of manners. Elizabethan London lay as far from Stratford as corrupt Paris lies from virgi Dublin. Who is the ghost from limbo patrum, returning to the world tha has forgotten him? Who is King Hamlet? 
John Eglinton shifted his spare body, leaning back to judge. 
Lifted. 
—It is this hour of a day in mid June, Stephen said, begging with a swif glance their hearing. The flag is up on the playhouse by the bankside. The bea Sackerson growls in the pit near it, Paris garden. Canvasclimbers who saile with Drake chew their sausages among the groundlings. 
Local colour. Work in all you know. Make them accomplices. 
—Shakespeare has left the huguenot’s house in Silver street and walks b the swanmews along the riverbank. But he does not stay to feed the pen chivyin her game of cygnets towards the rushes. The swan of Avon has other thoughts. 
Composition of place. Ignatius Loyola, make haste to help me! 
—The play begins. A player comes on under the shadow, made up in th castoff mail of a court buck, a wellset man with a bass voice. It is the ghost, the king, a king and no king, and the player is Shakespeare who has studie Hamlet all the years of his life which were not vanity in order to pla the part of the spectre. He speaks the words to Burbage, the young player wh stands before him beyond the rack of cerecloth, calling him by a name: 
Hamlet, I am thy father’s spirit, 
bidding him list. To a son he speaks, the son of his soul, the prince, youn Hamlet and to the son of his body, Hamnet Shakespeare, who has died i Stratford that his namesake may live for ever. 
Is it possible that that player Shakespeare, a ghost by absence, and in th vesture of buried Denmark, a ghost by death, speaking his own words to his ow son’s name (had Hamnet Shakespeare lived he would have been prince Hamlet’ twin), is it possible, I want to know, or probable that he did not draw o foresee the logical conclusion of those premises: you are the dispossessed son:I am the murdered father: your mother is the guilty queen, Ann Shakespeare, born Hathaway? 
—But this prying into the family life of a great man, Russell bega impatiently. 
Art thou there, truepenny? 
—Interesting only to the parish clerk. I mean, we have the plays. I mea when we read the poetry of King Lear what is it to us how the poe lived? As for living our servants can do that for us, Villiers de l’Isle ha said. Peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the day, the poet’s drinking, the poet’s debts. We have King Lear: and it is immortal. 
Mr Best’s face, appealed to, agreed. 
Flow over them with your waves and with your waters, Mananaan, Mananaan MacLir... 
How now, sirrah, that pound he lent you when you were hungry? 
Marry, I wanted it. 
Take thou this noble. 
Go to! You spent most of it in Georgina Johnson’s bed, clergyman’s daughter. Agenbite of inwit. 
Do you intend to pay it back? 
O, yes. 
When? Now? 
Well... No. 
When, then? 
I paid my way. I paid my way. 
Steady on. He’s from beyant Boyne water. The northeast corner. You owe it. 
Wait. Five months. Molecules all change. I am other I now. Other I got pound. 
Buzz. Buzz. 
But I, entelechy, form of forms, am I by memory because under everchangin forms. 
I that sinned and prayed and fasted. 
A child Conmee saved from pandies. 
I, I and I. I. 
A. E. I. O. U. 
—Do you mean to fly in the face of the tradition of three centuries? Joh Eglinton’s carping voice asked. Her ghost at least has been laid for ever. Sh died, for literature at least, before she was born. 
—She died, Stephen retorted, sixtyseven years after she was born. She sa him into and out of the world. She took his first embraces. She bore hi children and she laid pennies on his eyes to keep his eyelids closed when h lay on his deathbed. 
Mother’s deathbed. Candle. The sheeted mirror. Who brought me into this worl lies there, bronzelidded, under few cheap flowers. Liliata rutilantium. 
I wept alone. 
John Eglinton looked in the tangled glowworm of his lamp. 
—The world believes that Shakespeare made a mistake, he said, and got ou of it as quickly and as best he could. 
—Bosh! Stephen said rudely. A man of genius makes no mistakes. His error are volitional and are the portals of discovery. 
Portals of discovery opened to let in the quaker librarian, softcreakfooted, bald, eared and assiduous. 
—A shrew, John Eglinton said shrewdly, is not a useful portal o discovery, one should imagine. What useful discovery did Socrates learn fro Xanthippe? 
—Dialectic, Stephen answered: and from his mother how to bring thought into the world. What he learnt from his other wife Myrto (absit nomen!), Socratididion’s Epipsychidion, no man, not a woman, will ever know. But neithe the midwife’s lore nor the caudlelectures saved him from the archons of Sin Fein and their naggin of hemlock. 
—But Ann Hathaway? Mr Best’s quiet voice said forgetfully. Yes, we see to be forgetting her as Shakespeare himself forgot her. 
His look went from brooder’s beard to carper’s skull, to remind, to chide the not unkindly, then to the baldpink lollard costard, guiltless though maligned. 
—He had a good groatsworth of wit, Stephen said, and no truant memory. H carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged to Romeville whistling The gir I left behind me. If the earthquake did not time it we should know where t place poor Wat, sitting in his form, the cry of hounds, the studded bridle an her blue windows. That memory, Venus and Adonis, lay in the bedchambe of every light-of-love in London. Is Katharine the shrew illfavoured? Hortensi calls her young and beautiful. Do you think the writer of Antony an Cleopatra, a passionate pilgrim, had his eyes in the back of his head tha he chose the ugliest doxy in all Warwickshire to lie withal? Good: he left he and gained the world of men. But his boywomen are the women of a boy. Thei life, thought, speech are lent them by males. He chose badly? He was chosen, i seems to me. If others have their will Ann hath a way. By cock, she was t blame. She put the comether on him, sweet and twentysix. The greyeyed goddes who bends over the boy Adonis, stooping to conquer, as prologue to the swellin act, is a boldfaced Stratford wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover younge than herself. 
And my turn? When? 
Come! 
—Ryefield, Mr Best said brightly, gladly, raising his new book, gladly, brightly. 
He murmured then with blond delight for all: 
Between the acres of the ry These pretty countryfolk would lie. 
Paris: the wellpleased pleaser. 
A tall figure in bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveiled its cooperativ watch. 
—I am afraid I am due at the Homestead. 
Whither away? Exploitable ground. 
—Are you going? John Eglinton’s active eyebrows asked. Shall we see yo at Moore’s tonight? Piper is coming. 
—Piper! Mr Best piped. Is Piper back? 
Peter Piper pecked a peck of pick of peck of pickled pepper. 
—I don’t know if I can. Thursday. We have our meeting. If I can get awa in time. 
Yogibogeybox in Dawson chambers. Isis Unveiled. Their Pali book we trie to pawn. Crosslegged under an umbrel umbershoot he thrones an Aztec logos, functioning on astral levels, their oversoul, mahamahatma. The faithfu hermetists await the light, ripe for chelaship, ringroundabout him. Louis H. Victory. T. Caulfield Irwin. Lotus ladies tend them i’the eyes, their pinea glands aglow. Filled with his god, he thrones, Buddh under plantain. Gulfer o souls, engulfer. Hesouls, shesouls, shoals of souls. Engulfed with wailin creecries, whirled, whirling, they bewail. 
In quintessential trivialit For years in this fleshcase a shesoul dwelt. 
—They say we are to have a literary surprise, the quaker librarian said, friendly and earnest. Mr Russell, rumour has it, is gathering together a shea of our younger poets’ verses. We are all looking forward anxiously. 
Anxiously he glanced in the cone of lamplight where three faces, lighted, shone. 
See this. Remember. 
Stephen looked down on a wide headless caubeen, hung on his ashplanthandle ove his knee. My casque and sword. Touch lightly with two index fingers. Aristotle’s experiment. One or two? Necessity is that in virtue of which it i impossible that one can be otherwise. Argal, one hat is one hat. 
Listen. 
Young Colum and Starkey. George Roberts is doing the commercial part. Longwort will give it a good puff in the Express. O, will he? I liked Colum’ Drover. Yes, I think he has that queer thing genius. Do you think he ha genius really? Yeats admired his line: As in wild earth a Grecian vase. Did he? I hope you’ll be able to come tonight. Malachi Mulligan is coming too. Moore asked him to bring Haines. Did you hear Miss Mitchell’s joke about Moor and Martyn? That Moore is Martyn’s wild oats? Awfully clever, isn’t it? The remind one of Don Quixote and Sancho Panza. Our national epic has yet to b written, Dr Sigerson says. Moore is the man for it. A knight of the ruefu countenance here in Dublin. With a saffron kilt? O’Neill Russell? O, yes, h must speak the grand old tongue. And his Dulcinea? James Stephens is doing som clever sketches. We are becoming important, it seems. 
Cordelia. Cordoglio. Lir’s loneliest daughter. 
Nookshotten. Now your best French polish. 
—Thank you very much, Mr Russell, Stephen said, rising. If you will be s kind as to give the letter to Mr Norman... 
—O, yes. If he considers it important it will go in. We have so muc correspondence. 
—I understand, Stephen said. Thanks. 
God ild you. The pigs’ paper. Bullockbefriending. 
Synge has promised me an article for Dana too. Are we going to be read?I feel we are. The Gaelic league wants something in Irish. I hope you will com round tonight. Bring Starkey. 
Stephen sat down. 
The quaker librarian came from the leavetakers. Blushing, his mask said: 
—Mr Dedalus, your views are most illuminating. 
He creaked to and fro, tiptoing up nearer heaven by the altitude of a chopine, and, covered by the noise of outgoing, said low: 
—Is it your view, then, that she was not faithful to the poet? 
Alarmed face asks me. Why did he come? Courtesy or an inward light? 
—Where there is a reconciliation, Stephen said, there must have bee first a sundering. 
—Yes. 
Christfox in leather trews, hiding, a runaway in blighted treeforks, from hu and cry. Knowing no vixen, walking lonely in the chase. Women he won to him, tender people, a whore of Babylon, ladies of justices, bully tapsters’ wives. Fox and geese. And in New Place a slack dishonoured body that once was comely, once as sweet, as fresh as cinnamon, now her leaves falling, all, bare, frighted of the narrow grave and unforgiven. 
—Yes. So you think... 
The door closed behind the outgoer. 
Rest suddenly possessed the discreet vaulted cell, rest of warm and broodin air. 
A vestal’s lamp. 
Here he ponders things that were not: what Cæsar would have lived to do had h believed the soothsayer: what might have been: possibilities of the possible a possible: things not known: what name Achilles bore when he lived among women. 
Coffined thoughts around me, in mummycases, embalmed in spice of words. Thoth, god of libraries, a birdgod, moonycrowned. And I heard the voice of tha Egyptian highpriest. In painted chambers loaded with tilebooks. 
They are still. Once quick in the brains of men. Still: but an itch of death i in them, to tell me in my ear a maudlin tale, urge me to wreak their will. 
—Certainly, John Eglinton mused, of all great men he is the mos enigmatic. We know nothing but that he lived and suffered. Not even so much. Others abide our question. A shadow hangs over all the rest. 
—But Hamlet is so personal, isn’t it? Mr Best pleaded. I mean,  kind of private paper, don’t you know, of his private life. I mean, I don’ care a button, don’t you know, who is killed or who is guilty... 
He rested an innocent book on the edge of the desk, smiling his defiance. Hi private papers in the original. Ta an bad ar an tir. Taim in mo shagart. Put beurla on it, littlejohn. 
Quoth littlejohn Eglinton: 
—I was prepared for paradoxes from what Malachi Mulligan told us but  may as well warn you that if you want to shake my belief that Shakespeare i Hamlet you have a stern task before you. 
Bear with me. 
Stephen withstood the bane of miscreant eyes glinting stern under wrinkle brows. A basilisk. E quando vede l’uomo l’attosca. Messer Brunetto,  thank thee for the word. 
—As we, or mother Dana, weave and unweave our bodies, Stephen said, fro day to day, their molecules shuttled to and fro, so does the artist weave an unweave his image. And as the mole on my right breast is where it was when  was born, though all my body has been woven of new stuff time after time, s through the ghost of the unquiet father the image of the unliving son look forth. In the intense instant of imagination, when the mind, Shelley says, is  fading coal, that which I was is that which I am and that which in possibilit I may come to be. So in the future, the sister of the past, I may see myself a I sit here now but by reflection from that which then I shall be. 
Drummond of Hawthornden helped you at that stile. 
—Yes, Mr Best said youngly. I feel Hamlet quite young. The bitternes might be from the father but the passages with Ophelia are surely from the son. 
Has the wrong sow by the lug. He is in my father. I am in his son. 
—That mole is the last to go, Stephen said, laughing. 
John Eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow. 
—If that were the birthmark of genius, he said, genius would be a drug i the market. The plays of Shakespeare’s later years which Renan admired so muc breathe another spirit. 
—The spirit of reconciliation, the quaker librarian breathed. 
—There can be no reconciliation, Stephen said, if there has not been  sundering. 
Said that. 
—If you want to know what are the events which cast their shadow over th hell of time of King Lear, Othello, Hamlet, Troilus and Cressida, loo to see when and how the shadow lifts. What softens the heart of a man, shipwrecked in storms dire, Tried, like another Ulysses, Pericles, prince o Tyre? 
Head, redconecapped, buffeted, brineblinded. 
—A child, a girl, placed in his arms, Marina. 
—The leaning of sophists towards the bypaths of apocrypha is a constan quantity, John Eglinton detected. The highroads are dreary but they lead to th town. 
Good Bacon: gone musty. Shakespeare Bacon’s wild oats. Cypherjugglers going th highroads. Seekers on the great quest. What town, good masters? Mummed i names: A. E., eon: Magee, John Eglinton. East of the sun, west of the moon:Tir na n-og. Booted the twain and staved. 
How many miles to Dublin?Three score and ten, sir. Will we be there by candlelight? 
—Mr Brandes accepts it, Stephen said, as the first play of the closin period. 
—Does he? What does Mr Sidney Lee, or Mr Simon Lazarus as some aver hi name is, say of it? 
—Marina, Stephen said, a child of storm, Miranda, a wonder, Perdita, tha which was lost. What was lost is given back to him: his daughter’s child. M dearest wife, Pericles says, was like this maid. Will any man lov the daughter if he has not loved the mother? 
—The art of being a grandfather, Mr Best gan murmur. L’art d’êtr grand... 
—Will he not see reborn in her, with the memory of his own youth added, another image? 
Do you know what you are talking about? Love, yes. Word known to all men. Amor vero aliquid alicui bonum vult unde et ea quae concupiscimus ... 
—His own image to a man with that queer thing genius is the standard o all experience, material and moral. Such an appeal will touch him. The image of other males of his blood will repel him. He will see in them grotesqu attempts of nature to foretell or to repeat himself. 
The benign forehead of the quaker librarian enkindled rosily with hope. 
—I hope Mr Dedalus will work out his theory for the enlightenment of th public. And we ought to mention another Irish commentator, Mr George Bernar Shaw. Nor should we forget Mr Frank Harris. His articles on Shakespeare in th Saturday Review were surely brilliant. Oddly enough he too draws for u an unhappy relation with the dark lady of the sonnets. The favoured rival i William Herbert, earl of Pembroke. I own that if the poet must be rejected suc a rejection would seem more in harmony with—what shall I say?—ou notions of what ought not to have been. 
Felicitously he ceased and held a meek head among them, auk’s egg, prize o their fray. 
He thous and thees her with grave husbandwords. Dost love, Miriam? Dost lov thy man? 
—That may be too, Stephen said. There’s a saying of Goethe’s which M Magee likes to quote. Beware of what you wish for in youth because you will ge it in middle life. Why does he send to one who is a buonaroba, a ba where all men ride, a maid of honour with a scandalous girlhood, a lordling t woo for him? He was himself a lord of language and had made himself a coistre gentleman and he had written Romeo and Juliet. Why? Belief in himsel has been untimely killed. He was overborne in a cornfield first (ryefield,  should say) and he will never be a victor in his own eyes after nor pla victoriously the game of laugh and lie down. Assumed dongiovannism will no save him. No later undoing will undo the first undoing. The tusk of the boa has wounded him there where love lies ableeding. If the shrew is worsted ye there remains to her woman’s invisible weapon. There is, I feel in the words, some goad of the flesh driving him into a new passion, a darker shadow of th first, darkening even his own understanding of himself. A like fate awaits hi and the two rages commingle in a whirlpool. 
They list. And in the porches of their ears I pour. 
—The soul has been before stricken mortally, a poison poured in the porc of a sleeping ear. But those who are done to death in sleep cannot know th manner of their quell unless their Creator endow their souls with tha knowledge in the life to come. The poisoning and the beast with two backs tha urged it King Hamlet’s ghost could not know of were he not endowed wit knowledge by his creator. That is why the speech (his lean unlovely English) i always turned elsewhere, backward. Ravisher and ravished, what he would bu would not, go with him from Lucrece’s bluecircled ivory globes to Imogen’ breast, bare, with its mole cinquespotted. He goes back, weary of the creatio he has piled up to hide him from himself, an old dog licking an old sore. But, because loss is his gain, he passes on towards eternity in undiminishe personality, untaught by the wisdom he has written or by the laws he ha revealed. His beaver is up. He is a ghost, a shadow now, the wind by Elsinore’ rocks or what you will, the sea’s voice, a voice heard only in the heart of hi who is the substance of his shadow, the son consubstantial with the father. 
—Amen! was responded from the doorway. 
Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? 
Entr’acte. 
A ribald face, sullen as a dean’s, Buck Mulligan came forward, then blithe i motley, towards the greeting of their smiles. My telegram. 
—You were speaking of the gaseous vertebrate, if I mistake not? he aske of Stephen. 
Primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed Panama as with a bauble. 
They make him welcome. Was Du verlachst wirst Du noch dienen. 
Brood of mockers: Photius, pseudomalachi, Johann Most. 
He Who Himself begot middler the Holy Ghost and Himself sent Himself, Agenbuyer, between Himself and others, Who, put upon by His fiends, strippe and whipped, was nailed like bat to barndoor, starved on crosstree, Who let Hi bury, stood up, harrowed hell, fared into heaven and there these ninetee hundred years sitteth on the right hand of His Own Self but yet shall come i the latter day to doom the quick and dead when all the quick shall be dea already. 
He lifts his hands. Veils fall. O, flowers! Bells with bells with bell aquiring. 
—Yes, indeed, the quaker librarian said. A most instructive discussion. Mr Mulligan, I’ll be bound, has his theory too of the play and of Shakespeare. All sides of life should be represented. 
He smiled on all sides equally. 
Buck Mulligan thought, puzzled: 
—Shakespeare? he said. I seem to know the name. 
A flying sunny smile rayed in his loose features. 
—To be sure, he said, remembering brightly. The chap that writes lik Synge. 
Mr Best turned to him. 
—Haines missed you, he said. Did you meet him? He’ll see you after at th D. B. C. He’s gone to Gill’s to buy Hyde’s Lovesongs of Connacht. 
—I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he here? 
—The bard’s fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather tire perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that an actress played Hamle for the fourhundredandeighth time last night in Dublin. Vining held that th prince was a woman. Has no-one made him out to be an Irishman? Judge Barton,  believe, is searching for some clues. He swears (His Highness not His Lordship)by saint Patrick. 
—The most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde’s, Mr Best said, lifting his brilliant notebook. That Portrait of Mr W. H. where h proves that the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues. 
—For Willie Hughes, is it not? the quaker librarian asked. 
Or Hughie Wills? Mr William Himself. W. H.: who am I? 
—I mean, for Willie Hughes, Mr Best said, amending his gloss easily. O course it’s all paradox, don’t you know, Hughes and hews and hues, the colour, but it’s so typical the way he works it out. It’s the very essence of Wilde, don’t you know. The light touch. 
His glance touched their faces lightly as he smiled, a blond ephebe. Tam essence of Wilde. 
You’re darned witty. Three drams of usquebaugh you drank with Dan Deasy’ ducats. 
How much did I spend? O, a few shillings. 
For a plump of pressmen. Humour wet and dry. 
Wit. You would give your five wits for youth’s proud livery he pranks in. Lineaments of gratified desire. 
There be many mo. Take her for me. In pairing time. Jove, a cool ruttime sen them. Yea, turtledove her. 
Eve. Naked wheatbellied sin. A snake coils her, fang in’s kiss. 
—Do you think it is only a paradox? the quaker librarian was asking. Th mocker is never taken seriously when he is most serious. 
They talked seriously of mocker’s seriousness. 
Buck Mulligan’s again heavy face eyed Stephen awhile. Then, his head wagging, he came near, drew a folded telegram from his pocket. His mobile lips read, smiling with new delight. 
—Telegram! he said. Wonderful inspiration! Telegram! A papal bull! 
He sat on a corner of the unlit desk, reading aloud joyfully: 
—The sentimentalist is he who would enjoy without incurring th immense debtorship for a thing done. Signed: Dedalus. Where did you launc it from? The kips? No. College Green. Have you drunk the four quid? The aunt i going to call on your unsubstantial father. Telegram! Malachi Mulligan, Th Ship, lower Abbey street. O, you peerless mummer! O, you priestified Kinchite! 
Joyfully he thrust message and envelope into a pocket but keened in a querulou brogue: 
—It’s what I’m telling you, mister honey, it’s queer and sick we were, Haines and myself, the time himself brought it in. ’Twas murmur we did for  gallus potion would rouse a friar, I’m thinking, and he limp with leching. An we one hour and two hours and three hours in Connery’s sitting civil waitin for pints apiece. 
He wailed: 
—And we to be there, mavrone, and you to be unbeknownst sending us you conglomerations the way we to have our tongues out a yard long like the drouth clerics do be fainting for a pussful. 
Stephen laughed. 
Quickly, warningfully Buck Mulligan bent down. 
—The tramper Synge is looking for you, he said, to murder you. He hear you pissed on his halldoor in Glasthule. He’s out in pampooties to murder you. 
—Me! Stephen exclaimed. That was your contribution to literature. 
Buck Mulligan gleefully bent back, laughing to the dark eavesdropping ceiling. 
—Murder you! he laughed. 
Harsh gargoyle face that warred against me over our mess of hash of lights i rue Saint-André-des-Arts. In words of words for words, palabras. Oisin wit Patrick. Faunman he met in Clamart woods, brandishing a winebottle. C’es vendredi saint! Murthering Irish. His image, wandering, he met. I mine.  met a fool i’the forest. 
—Mr Lyster, an attendant said from the door ajar. 
—... in which everyone can find his own. So Mr Justice Madden in hi Diary of Master William Silence has found the hunting terms... Yes? Wha is it? 
—There’s a gentleman here, sir, the attendant said, coming forward an offering a card. From the Freeman. He wants to see the files of th Kilkenny People for last year. 
—Certainly, certainly, certainly. Is the gentleman?... 
He took the eager card, glanced, not saw, laid down unglanced, looked, asked, creaked, asked: 
—Is he?... O, there! 
Brisk in a galliard he was off, out. In the daylit corridor he talked wit voluble pains of zeal, in duty bound, most fair, most kind, most hones broadbrim. 
—This gentleman? Freeman’s Journal? Kilkenny People? To be sure. Good day, sir. Kilkenny... We have certainly... 
A patient silhouette waited, listening. 
—All the leading provincial... Northern Whig, Cork Examiner, Enniscorthy Guardian, 1903... Will you please?... Evans, conduct thi gentleman... If you just follow the atten... Or, please allow me... This way... Please, sir... 
Voluble, dutiful, he led the way to all the provincial papers, a bowing dar figure following his hasty heels. 
The door closed. 
—The sheeny! Buck Mulligan cried. 
He jumped up and snatched the card. 
—What’s his name? Ikey Moses? Bloom. 
He rattled on: 
—Jehovah, collector of prepuces, is no more. I found him over in th museum where I went to hail the foamborn Aphrodite. The Greek mouth that ha never been twisted in prayer. Every day we must do homage to her. Life o life, thy lips enkindle. 
Suddenly he turned to Stephen: 
—He knows you. He knows your old fellow. O, I fear me, he is Greeker tha the Greeks. His pale Galilean eyes were upon her mesial groove. Venu Kallipyge. O, the thunder of those loins! The god pursuing the maide hid. 
—We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with Mr Best’s approval. W begin to be interested in Mrs S. Till now we had thought of her, if at all, a a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome. 
—Antisthenes, pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beaut from Kyrios Menelaus’ brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of Troy in whom  score of heroes slept, and handed it to poor Penelope. Twenty years he lived i London and, during part of that time, he drew a salary equal to that of th lord chancellor of Ireland. His life was rich. His art, more than the art o feudalism as Walt Whitman called it, is the art of surfeit. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack, honeysauces, sugar of roses, marchpane, gooseberrie pigeons, ringocandies. Sir Walter Raleigh, when they arrested him, had half  million francs on his back including a pair of fancy stays. The gombeenwoma Eliza Tudor had underlinen enough to vie with her of Sheba. Twenty years h dallied there between conjugial love and its chaste delights and scortator love and its foul pleasures. You know Manningham’s story of the burgher’s wif who bade Dick Burbage to her bed after she had seen him in Richard II and how Shakespeare, overhearing, without more ado about nothing, took the co by the horns and, when Burbage came knocking at the gate, answered from th capon’s blankets: William the conqueror came before Richard III. And th gay lakin, mistress Fitton, mount and cry O, and his dainty birdsnies, lad Penelope Rich, a clean quality woman is suited for a player, and the punks o the bankside, a penny a time. 
Cours la Reine. Encore vingt sous. Nous ferons de petites cochonneries. Minette? Tu veux? 
—The height of fine society. And sir William Davenant of Oxford’s mothe with her cup of canary for any cockcanary. 
Buck Mulligan, his pious eyes upturned, prayed: 
—Blessed Margaret Mary Anycock! 
—And Harry of six wives’ daughter. And other lady friends from neighbou seats as Lawn Tennyson, gentleman poet, sings. But all those twenty years wha do you suppose poor Penelope in Stratford was doing behind the diamond panes? 
Do and do. Thing done. In a rosery of Fetter lane of Gerard, herbalist, h walks, greyedauburn. An azured harebell like her veins. Lids of Juno’s eyes, violets. He walks. One life is all. One body. Do. But do. Afar, in a reek o lust and squalor, hands are laid on whiteness. 
Buck Mulligan rapped John Eglinton’s desk sharply. 
—Whom do you suspect? he challenged. 
—Say that he is the spurned lover in the sonnets. Once spurned twic spurned. But the court wanton spurned him for a lord, his dearmylove. 
Love that dare not speak its name. 
—As an Englishman, you mean, John sturdy Eglinton put in, he loved  lord. 
Old wall where sudden lizards flash. At Charenton I watched them. 
—It seems so, Stephen said, when he wants to do for him, and for al other and singular uneared wombs, the holy office an ostler does for th stallion. Maybe, like Socrates, he had a midwife to mother as he had a shrew t wife. But she, the giglot wanton, did not break a bedvow. Two deeds are rank i that ghost’s mind: a broken vow and the dullbrained yokel on whom her favou has declined, deceased husband’s brother. Sweet Ann, I take it, was hot in th blood. Once a wooer, twice a wooer. 
Stephen turned boldly in his chair. 
—The burden of proof is with you not with me, he said frowning. If yo deny that in the fifth scene of Hamlet he has branded her with infam tell me why there is no mention of her during the thirtyfour years between th day she married him and the day she buried him. All those women saw their me down and under: Mary, her goodman John, Ann, her poor dear Willun, when he wen and died on her, raging that he was the first to go, Joan, her four brothers, Judith, her husband and all her sons, Susan, her husband too, while Susan’ daughter, Elizabeth, to use granddaddy’s words, wed her second, having kille her first. 
O, yes, mention there is. In the years when he was living richly in roya London to pay a debt she had to borrow forty shillings from her father’ shepherd. Explain you then. Explain the swansong too wherein he has commende her to posterity. 
He faced their silence. 
To whom thus Eglinton: You mean the will. But that has been explained, I believe, by jurists. She was entitled to her widow’s dowe At common law. His legal knowledge was grea Our judges tell us.\n            Him Satan fleers, Mocker:\n            And therefore he left out her nam From the first draft but he did not leave ou The presents for his granddaughter, for his daughters, For his sister, for his old cronies in Stratfor And in London. And therefore when he was urged, As I believe, to name he He left her hi Secondbes Bed.\n            Punkt. Leftherhi Secondbes Leftherhi Bestabe Secabes Leftabed. 
Woa! 
—Pretty countryfolk had few chattels then, John Eglinton observed, a they have still if our peasant plays are true to type. 
—He was a rich country gentleman, Stephen said, with a coat of arms an landed estate at Stratford and a house in Ireland yard, a capitalis shareholder, a bill promoter, a tithefarmer. Why did he not leave her his bes bed if he wished her to snore away the rest of her nights in peace? 
—It is clear that there were two beds, a best and a secondbest, M Secondbest Best said finely. 
—Separatio a mensa et a thalamo, bettered Buck Mulligan and wa smiled on. 
—Antiquity mentions famous beds, Second Eglinton puckered, bedsmiling. Let me think. 
—Antiquity mentions that Stagyrite schoolurchin and bald heathen sage, Stephen said, who when dying in exile frees and endows his slaves, pays tribut to his elders, wills to be laid in earth near the bones of his dead wife an bids his friends be kind to an old mistress (don’t forget Nell Gwynn Herpyllis)and let her live in his villa. 
—Do you mean he died so? Mr Best asked with slight concern. I mean... 
—He died dead drunk, Buck Mulligan capped. A quart of ale is a dish for  king. O, I must tell you what Dowden said! 
—What? asked Besteglinton. 
William Shakespeare and company, limited. The people’s William. For term apply: E. Dowden, Highfield house... 
—Lovely! Buck Mulligan suspired amorously. I asked him what he thought o the charge of pederasty brought against the bard. He lifted his hands and said:All we can say is that life ran very high in those days. Lovely! 
Catamite. 
—The sense of beauty leads us astray, said beautifulinsadness Best t ugling Eglinton. 
Steadfast John replied severe: 
—The doctor can tell us what those words mean. You cannot eat your cak and have it. 
Sayest thou so? Will they wrest from us, from me, the palm of beauty? 
—And the sense of property, Stephen said. He drew Shylock out of his ow long pocket. The son of a maltjobber and moneylender he was himself  cornjobber and moneylender, with ten tods of corn hoarded in the famine riots. His borrowers are no doubt those divers of worship mentioned by Chettl Falstaff who reported his uprightness of dealing. He sued a fellowplayer fo the price of a few bags of malt and exacted his pound of flesh in interest fo every money lent. How else could Aubrey’s ostler and callboy get rich quick?All events brought grist to his mill. Shylock chimes with the jewbaiting tha followed the hanging and quartering of the queen’s leech Lopez, his jew’s hear being plucked forth while the sheeny was yet alive: Hamlet an Macbeth with the coming to the throne of a Scotch philosophaster with  turn for witchroasting. The lost armada is his jeer in Love’s Labou Lost. His pageants, the histories, sail fullbellied on a tide of Mafekin enthusiasm. Warwickshire jesuits are tried and we have a porter’s theory o equivocation. The Sea Venture comes home from Bermudas and the pla Renan admired is written with Patsy Caliban, our American cousin. The sugare sonnets follow Sidney’s. As for fay Elizabeth, otherwise carrotty Bess, th gross virgin who inspired The Merry Wives of Windsor, let some meinher from Almany grope his life long for deephid meanings in the depths of th buckbasket. 
I think you’re getting on very nicely. Just mix up a mixture o theolologicophilolological. Mingo, minxi, mictum, mingere. 
—Prove that he was a jew, John Eglinton dared, expectantly. Your dean o studies holds he was a holy Roman. 
Sufflaminandus sum. 
—He was made in Germany, Stephen replied, as the champion French polishe of Italian scandals. 
—A myriadminded man, Mr Best reminded. Coleridge called him myriadminded. 
Amplius. In societate humana hoc est maxime necessarium ut sit amiciti inter multos. 
—Saint Thomas, Stephen began... 
—Ora pro nobis, Monk Mulligan groaned, sinking to a chair. 
There he keened a wailing rune. 
—Pogue mahone! Acushla machree! It’s destroyed we are from thi day! It’s destroyed we are surely! 
All smiled their smiles. 
—Saint Thomas, Stephen smiling said, whose gorbellied works I enjo reading in the original, writing of incest from a standpoint different fro that of the new Viennese school Mr Magee spoke of, likens it in his wise an curious way to an avarice of the emotions. He means that the love so given t one near in blood is covetously withheld from some stranger who, it may be, hungers for it. Jews, whom christians tax with avarice, are of all races th most given to intermarriage. Accusations are made in anger. The christian law which built up the hoards of the jews (for whom, as for the lollards, storm wa shelter) bound their affections too with hoops of steel. Whether these be sin or virtues old Nobodaddy will tell us at doomsday leet. But a man who holds s tightly to what he calls his rights over what he calls his debts will hol tightly also to what he calls his rights over her whom he calls his wife. N sir smile neighbour shall covet his ox or his wife or his manservant or hi maidservant or his jackass. 
—Or his jennyass, Buck Mulligan antiphoned. 
—Gentle Will is being roughly handled, gentle Mr Best said gently. 
—Which will? gagged sweetly Buck Mulligan. We are getting mixed. 
—The will to live, John Eglinton philosophised, for poor Ann, Will’ widow, is the will to die. 
—Requiescat! Stephen prayed. 
What of all the will to do?It has vanished long ago... 
—She lies laid out in stark stiffness in that secondbest bed, the moble queen, even though you prove that a bed in those days was as rare as a motorca is now and that its carvings were the wonder of seven parishes. In old age sh takes up with gospellers (one stayed with her at New Place and drank a quart o sack the town council paid for but in which bed he slept it skills not to ask)and heard she had a soul. She read or had read to her his chapbooks preferrin them to the Merry Wives and, loosing her nightly waters on the jordan, she thought over Hooks and Eyes for Believers’ Breeches and The mos Spiritual Snuffbox to Make the Most Devout Souls Sneeze. Venus has twiste her lips in prayer. Agenbite of inwit: remorse of conscience. It is an age o exhausted whoredom groping for its god. 
—History shows that to be true, inquit Eglintonus Chronolologos. The ages succeed one another. But we have it on high authority that a man’ worst enemies shall be those of his own house and family. I feel that Russel is right. What do we care for his wife or father? I should say that only famil poets have family lives. Falstaff was not a family man. I feel that the fa knight is his supreme creation. 
Lean, he lay back. Shy, deny thy kindred, the unco guid. Shy, supping with th godless, he sneaks the cup. A sire in Ultonian Antrim bade it him. Visits hi here on quarter days. Mr Magee, sir, there’s a gentleman to see you. Me? Say he’s your father, sir. Give me my Wordsworth. Enter Magee Mor Matthew, a rugge rough rugheaded kern, in strossers with a buttoned codpiece, his nether stock bemired with clauber of ten forests, a wand of wilding in his hand. 
Your own? He knows your old fellow. The widower. 
Hurrying to her squalid deathlair from gay Paris on the quayside I touched hi hand. The voice, new warmth, speaking. Dr Bob Kenny is attending her. The eye that wish me well. But do not know me. 
—A father, Stephen said, battling against hopelessness, is a necessar evil. He wrote the play in the months that followed his father’s death. If yo hold that he, a greying man with two marriageable daughters, with thirtyfiv years of life, nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita, with fifty o experience, is the beardless undergraduate from Wittenberg then you must hol that his seventyyear old mother is the lustful queen. No. The corpse of Joh Shakespeare does not walk the night. From hour to hour it rots and rots. H rests, disarmed of fatherhood, having devised that mystical estate upon hi son. Boccaccio’s Calandrino was the first and last man who felt himself wit child. Fatherhood, in the sense of conscious begetting, is unknown to man. I is a mystical estate, an apostolic succession, from only begetter to onl begotten. On that mystery and not on the madonna which the cunning Italia intellect flung to the mob of Europe the church is founded and founde irremovably because founded, like the world, macro and microcosm, upon th void. Upon incertitude, upon unlikelihood. Amor matris, subjective an objective genitive, may be the only true thing in life. Paternity may be  legal fiction. Who is the father of any son that any son should love him or h any son? 
What the hell are you driving at? 
I know. Shut up. Blast you. I have reasons. 
Amplius. Adhuc. Iterum. Postea. 
Are you condemned to do this? 
—They are sundered by a bodily shame so steadfast that the crimina annals of the world, stained with all other incests and bestialities, hardl record its breach. Sons with mothers, sires with daughters, lesbic sisters, loves that dare not speak their name, nephews with grandmothers, jailbirds wit keyholes, queens with prize bulls. The son unborn mars beauty: born, he bring pain, divides affection, increases care. He is a new male: his growth is hi father’s decline, his youth his father’s envy, his friend his father’s enemy. 
In rue Monsieur-le-Prince I thought it. 
—What links them in nature? An instant of blind rut. 
Am I a father? If I were? 
Shrunken uncertain hand. 
—Sabellius, the African, subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of th field, held that the Father was Himself His Own Son. The bulldog of Aquin, wit whom no word shall be impossible, refutes him. Well: if the father who has no a son be not a father can the son who has not a father be a son? Whe Rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or another poet of the same name in th comedy of errors wrote Hamlet he was not the father of his own so merely but, being no more a son, he was and felt himself the father of all hi race, the father of his own grandfather, the father of his unborn grandson who, by the same token, never was born, for nature, as Mr Magee understands her, abhors perfection. 
Eglintoneyes, quick with pleasure, looked up shybrightly. Gladly glancing,  merry puritan, through the twisted eglantine. 
Flatter. Rarely. But flatter. 
—Himself his own father, Sonmulligan told himself. Wait. I am big wit child. I have an unborn child in my brain. Pallas Athena! A play! The play’ the thing! Let me parturiate! 
He clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands. 
—As for his family, Stephen said, his mother’s name lives in the fores of Arden. Her death brought from him the scene with Volumnia i Coriolanus. His boyson’s death is the deathscene of young Arthur i King John. Hamlet, the black prince, is Hamnet Shakespeare. Who th girls in The Tempest, in Pericles, in Winter’s Tale are w know. Who Cleopatra, fleshpot of Egypt, and Cressid and Venus are we may guess. But there is another member of his family who is recorded. 
—The plot thickens, John Eglinton said. 
The quaker librarian, quaking, tiptoed in, quake, his mask, quake, with haste, quake, quack. 
Door closed. Cell. Day. 
They list. Three. They. 
I you he they. 
Come, mess. 
STEPHEN: He had three brothers, Gilbert, Edmund, Richard. Gilbert in his ol age told some cavaliers he got a pass for nowt from Maister Gatherer one tim mass he did and he seen his brud Maister Wull the playwriter up in Lunnon in  wrastling play wud a man on’s back. The playhouse sausage filled Gilbert’ soul. He is nowhere: but an Edmund and a Richard are recorded in the works o sweet William. 
MAGEEGLINJOHN: Names! What’s in a name? 
BEST: That is my name, Richard, don’t you know. I hope you are going to say  good word for Richard, don’t you know, for my sake. (Laughter) 
BUCKMULLIGAN: (Piano, diminuendo) 
Then outspoke medical Dic To his comrade medical Davy... 
STEPHEN: In his trinity of black Wills, the villain shakebags, Iago, Richar Crookback, Edmund in King Lear, two bear the wicked uncles’ names. Nay, that last play was written or being written while his brother Edmund lay dyin in Southwark. 
BEST: I hope Edmund is going to catch it. I don’t want Richard, my name ... 
(Laughter) 
QUAKERLYSTER: (A tempo) But he that filches from me my good name... 
STEPHEN: (Stringendo) He has hidden his own name, a fair name, William, in the plays, a super here, a clown there, as a painter of old Italy set hi face in a dark corner of his canvas. He has revealed it in the sonnets wher there is Will in overplus. Like John o’Gaunt his name is dear to him, as dea as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a bend sable a spear or steele argent, honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than his glory of greates shakescene in the country. What’s in a name? That is what we ask ourselves i childhood when we write the name that we are told is ours. A star, a daystar,  firedrake, rose at his birth. It shone by day in the heavens alone, brighte than Venus in the night, and by night it shone over delta in Cassiopeia, th recumbent constellation which is the signature of his initial among the stars. His eyes watched it, lowlying on the horizon, eastward of the bear, as h walked by the slumberous summer fields at midnight returning from Shottery an from her arms. 
Both satisfied. I too. 
Don’t tell them he was nine years old when it was quenched. 
And from her arms. 
Wait to be wooed and won. Ay, meacock. Who will woo you? 
Read the skies. Autontimorumenos. Bous Stephanoumenos. Where’s you configuration? Stephen, Stephen, cut the bread even. S. D: sua donna. Già:di lui. Gelindo risolve di non amare S. D. 
—What is that, Mr Dedalus? the quaker librarian asked. Was it a celestia phenomenon? 
—A star by night, Stephen said. A pillar of the cloud by day. 
What more’s to speak? 
Stephen looked on his hat, his stick, his boots. 
Stephanos, my crown. My sword. His boots are spoiling the shape of m feet. Buy a pair. Holes in my socks. Handkerchief too. 
—You make good use of the name, John Eglinton allowed. Your own name i strange enough. I suppose it explains your fantastical humour. 
Me, Magee and Mulligan. 
Fabulous artificer. The hawklike man. You flew. Whereto? Newhaven-Dieppe, steerage passenger. Paris and back. Lapwing. Icarus. Pater, ait. Seabedabbled, fallen, weltering. Lapwing you are. Lapwing be. 
Mr Best eagerquietly lifted his book to say: 
—That’s very interesting because that brother motive, don’t you know, w find also in the old Irish myths. Just what you say. The three brother Shakespeare. In Grimm too, don’t you know, the fairytales. The third brothe that always marries the sleeping beauty and wins the best prize. 
Best of Best brothers. Good, better, best. 
The quaker librarian springhalted near. 
—I should like to know, he said, which brother you... I understand you t suggest there was misconduct with one of the brothers... But perhaps I a anticipating? 
He caught himself in the act: looked at all: refrained. 
An attendant from the doorway called: 
—Mr Lyster! Father Dineen wants... 
—O, Father Dineen! Directly. 
Swiftly rectly creaking rectly rectly he was rectly gone. 
John Eglinton touched the foil. 
—Come, he said. Let us hear what you have to say of Richard and Edmund. You kept them for the last, didn’t you? 
—In asking you to remember those two noble kinsmen nuncle Richie an nuncle Edmund, Stephen answered, I feel I am asking too much perhaps. A brothe is as easily forgotten as an umbrella. 
Lapwing. 
Where is your brother? Apothecaries’ hall. My whetstone. Him, then Cranly, Mulligan: now these. Speech, speech. But act. Act speech. They mock to try you. Act. Be acted on. 
Lapwing. 
I am tired of my voice, the voice of Esau. My kingdom for a drink. 
On. 
—You will say those names were already in the chronicles from which h took the stuff of his plays. Why did he take them rather than others? Richard, a whoreson crookback, misbegotten, makes love to a widowed Ann (what’s in  name?), woos and wins her, a whoreson merry widow. Richard the conqueror, thir brother, came after William the conquered. The other four acts of that pla hang limply from that first. Of all his kings Richard is the only kin unshielded by Shakespeare’s reverence, the angel of the world. Why is th underplot of King Lear in which Edmund figures lifted out of Sidney’ Arcadia and spatchcocked on to a Celtic legend older than history? 
—That was Will’s way, John Eglinton defended. We should not now combine  Norse saga with an excerpt from a novel by George Meredith. Qu voulez-vous? Moore would say. He puts Bohemia on the seacoast and make Ulysses quote Aristotle. 
—Why? Stephen answered himself. Because the theme of the false or th usurping or the adulterous brother or all three in one is to Shakespeare, wha the poor are not, always with him. The note of banishment, banishment from th heart, banishment from home, sounds uninterruptedly from The Two Gentleme of Verona onward till Prospero breaks his staff, buries it certain fathom in the earth and drowns his book. It doubles itself in the middle of his life, reflects itself in another, repeats itself, protasis, epitasis, catastasis, catastrophe. It repeats itself again when he is near the grave, when hi married daughter Susan, chip of the old block, is accused of adultery. But i was the original sin that darkened his understanding, weakened his will an left in him a strong inclination to evil. The words are those of my lord bishops of Maynooth. An original sin and, like original sin, committed b another in whose sin he too has sinned. It is between the lines of his las written words, it is petrified on his tombstone under which her four bones ar not to be laid. Age has not withered it. Beauty and peace have not done i away. It is in infinite variety everywhere in the world he has created, i Much Ado about Nothing, twice in As you like It, in Th Tempest, in Hamlet, in Measure for Measure—and in al the other plays which I have not read. 
He laughed to free his mind from his mind’s bondage. 
Judge Eglinton summed up. 
—The truth is midway, he affirmed. He is the ghost and the prince. He i all in all. 
—He is, Stephen said. The boy of act one is the mature man of act five. All in all. In Cymbeline, in Othello he is bawd and cuckold. H acts and is acted on. Lover of an ideal or a perversion, like José he kills th real Carmen. His unremitting intellect is the hornmad Iago ceaselessly willin that the moor in him shall suffer. 
—Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Cuck Mulligan clucked lewdly. O word of fear! 
Dark dome received, reverbed. 
—And what a character is Iago! undaunted John Eglinton exclaimed. Whe all is said Dumas fils (or is it Dumas père?) is right. After Go Shakespeare has created most. 
—Man delights him not nor woman neither, Stephen said. He returns after  life of absence to that spot of earth where he was born, where he has alway been, man and boy, a silent witness and there, his journey of life ended, h plants his mulberrytree in the earth. Then dies. The motion is ended. Gravediggers bury Hamlet père and Hamlet fils. A king and  prince at last in death, with incidental music. And, what though murdered an betrayed, bewept by all frail tender hearts for, Dane or Dubliner, sorrow fo the dead is the only husband from whom they refuse to be divorced. If you lik the epilogue look long on it: prosperous Prospero, the good man rewarded, Lizzie, grandpa’s lump of love, and nuncle Richie, the bad man taken off b poetic justice to the place where the bad niggers go. Strong curtain. He foun in the world without as actual what was in his world within as possible. Maeterlinck says: If Socrates leave his house today he will find the sag seated on his doorstep. If Judas go forth tonight it is to Judas his steps wil tend. Every life is many days, day after day. We walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers-in-love, but always meeting ourselves. The playwright who wrote th folio of this world and wrote it badly (He gave us light first and the sun tw days later), the lord of things as they are whom the most Roman of catholic call dio boia, hangman god, is doubtless all in all in all of us, ostle and butcher, and would be bawd and cuckold too but that in the economy o heaven, foretold by Hamlet, there are no more marriages, glorified man, a androgynous angel, being a wife unto himself. 
—Eureka! Buck Mulligan cried. Eureka! 
Suddenly happied he jumped up and reached in a stride John Eglinton’s desk. 
—May I? he said. The Lord has spoken to Malachi. 
He began to scribble on a slip of paper. 
Take some slips from the counter going out. 
—Those who are married, Mr Best, douce herald, said, all save one, shal live. The rest shall keep as they are. 
He laughed, unmarried, at Eglinton Johannes, of arts a bachelor. 
Unwed, unfancied, ware of wiles, they fingerponder nightly each his varioru edition of The Taming of the Shrew. 
—You are a delusion, said roundly John Eglinton to Stephen. You hav brought us all this way to show us a French triangle. Do you believe your ow theory? 
—No, Stephen said promptly. 
—Are you going to write it? Mr Best asked. You ought to make it  dialogue, don’t you know, like the Platonic dialogues Wilde wrote. 
John Eclecticon doubly smiled. 
—Well, in that case, he said, I don’t see why you should expect paymen for it since you don’t believe it yourself. Dowden believes there is som mystery in Hamlet but will say no more. Herr Bleibtreu, the man Pipe met in Berlin, who is working up that Rutland theory, believes that the secre is hidden in the Stratford monument. He is going to visit the present duke, Piper says, and prove to him that his ancestor wrote the plays. It will come a a surprise to his grace. But he believes his theory. 
I believe, O Lord, help my unbelief. That is, help me to believe or help me t unbelieve? Who helps to believe? Egomen. Who to unbelieve? Other chap. 
—You are the only contributor to Dana who asks for pieces o silver. Then I don’t know about the next number. Fred Ryan wants space for a article on economics. 
Fraidrine. Two pieces of silver he lent me. Tide you over. Economics. 
—For a guinea, Stephen said, you can publish this interview. 
Buck Mulligan stood up from his laughing scribbling, laughing: and then gravel said, honeying malice: 
—I called upon the bard Kinch at his summer residence in uppe Mecklenburgh street and found him deep in the study of the Summa contr Gentiles in the company of two gonorrheal ladies, Fresh Nelly and Rosalie, the coalquay whore. 
He broke away. 
—Come, Kinch. Come, wandering Ængus of the birds. 
Come, Kinch. You have eaten all we left. Ay. I will serve you your orts an offals. 
Stephen rose. 
Life is many days. This will end. 
—We shall see you tonight, John Eglinton said. Notre ami Moor says Malachi Mulligan must be there. 
Buck Mulligan flaunted his slip and panama. 
—Monsieur Moore, he said, lecturer on French letters to the youth o Ireland. I’ll be there. Come, Kinch, the bards must drink. Can you wal straight? 
Laughing, he... 
Swill till eleven. Irish nights entertainment. 
Lubber... 
Stephen followed a lubber... 
One day in the national library we had a discussion. Shakes. After. His lu back: I followed. I gall his kibe. 
Stephen, greeting, then all amort, followed a lubber jester, a wellkempt head, newbarbered, out of the vaulted cell into a shattering daylight of no thought. 
What have I learned? Of them? Of me? 
Walk like Haines now. 
The constant readers’ room. In the readers’ book Cashel Boyle O’Conno Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell parafes his polysyllables. Item: was Hamlet mad?The quaker’s pate godlily with a priesteen in booktalk. 
—O please do, sir... I shall be most pleased... 
Amused Buck Mulligan mused in pleasant murmur with himself, selfnodding: 
—A pleased bottom. 
The turnstile. 
Is that?... Blueribboned hat... Idly writing... What? Looked?... 
The curving balustrade: smoothsliding Mincius. 
Puck Mulligan, panamahelmeted, went step by step, iambing, trolling: 
John Eglinton, my jo, John, Why won’t you wed a wife? 
He spluttered to the air: 
—O, the chinless Chinaman! Chin Chon Eg Lin Ton. We went over to thei playbox, Haines and I, the plumbers’ hall. Our players are creating a new ar for Europe like the Greeks or M. Maeterlinck. Abbey Theatre! I smell the pubi sweat of monks. 
He spat blank. 
Forgot: any more than he forgot the whipping lousy Lucy gave him. And left th femme de trente ans. And why no other children born? And his first chil a girl? 
Afterwit. Go back. 
The dour recluse still there (he has his cake) and the douce youngling, minio of pleasure, Phedo’s toyable fair hair. 
Eh... I just eh... wanted... I forgot... he... 
—Longworth and M’Curdy Atkinson were there... 
Puck Mulligan footed featly, trilling: 
I hardly hear the purlieu cr Or a Tommy talk as I pass one b Before my thoughts begin to ru On F. M’Curdy Atkinson, The same that had the wooden le And that filibustering filibe That never dared to slake his drouth, Magee that had the chinless mouth. Being afraid to marry on eart They masturbated for all they were worth. 
Jest on. Know thyself. 
Halted, below me, a quizzer looks at me. I halt. 
—Mournful mummer, Buck Mulligan moaned. Synge has left off wearing blac to be like nature. Only crows, priests and English coal are black. 
A laugh tripped over his lips. 
—Longworth is awfully sick, he said, after what you wrote about that ol hake Gregory. O you inquisitional drunken jewjesuit! She gets you a job on th paper and then you go and slate her drivel to Jaysus. Couldn’t you do the Yeat touch? 
He went on and down, mopping, chanting with waving graceful arms: 
—The most beautiful book that has come out of our country in my time. On thinks of Homer. 
He stopped at the stairfoot. 
—I have conceived a play for the mummers, he said solemnly. 
The pillared Moorish hall, shadows entwined. Gone the nine men’s morrice wit caps of indices. 
In sweetly varying voices Buck Mulligan read his tablet: 
Everyman His Own Wif o A Honeymoon in the Han (a national immorality in three orgasms)b Ballocky Mulligan. 
He turned a happy patch’s smirk to Stephen, saying: 
—The disguise, I fear, is thin. But listen. 
He read, marcato: 
—Characters: 
\n     TOBY TOSTOFF (a ruined Pole)\n     CRAB (a bushranger)\n     MEDICAL DICK )\n         and      ) (two birds with one stone)\n     MEDICAL DAVY )\n     MOTHER GROGAN (a watercarrier)\n     FRESH NELL          an      ROSALIE (the coalquay whore). 
He laughed, lolling a to and fro head, walking on, followed by Stephen: an mirthfully he told the shadows, souls of men: 
—O, the night in the Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lif their skirts to step over you as you lay in your mulberrycoloured, multicoloured, multitudinous vomit! 
—The most innocent son of Erin, Stephen said, for whom they ever lifte them. 
About to pass through the doorway, feeling one behind, he stood aside. 
Part. The moment is now. Where then? If Socrates leave his house today, i Judas go forth tonight. Why? That lies in space which I in time must come to, ineluctably. 
My will: his will that fronts me. Seas between. 
A man passed out between them, bowing, greeting. 
—Good day again, Buck Mulligan said. 
The portico. 
Here I watched the birds for augury. Ængus of the birds. They go, they come. Last night I flew. Easily flew. Men wondered. Street of harlots after.  creamfruit melon he held to me. In. You will see. 
—The wandering jew, Buck Mulligan whispered with clown’s awe. Did you se his eye? He looked upon you to lust after you. I fear thee, ancient mariner. O, Kinch, thou art in peril. Get thee a breechpad. 
Manner of Oxenford. 
Day. Wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge. 
A dark back went before them, step of a pard, down, out by the gateway, unde portcullis barbs. 
They followed. 
Offend me still. Speak on. 
Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. No birds. Frail fro the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flaw of softnes softly were blown. 
Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic: fro wide earth an altar. 
            Laud we the god And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostril From our bless’d altars. 



The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S. J. reset his smooth watch in hi interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Five to three. Just nic time to walk to Artane. What was that boy’s name again? Dignam. Yes. Ver dignum et iustum est. Brother Swan was the person to see. Mr Cunningham’ letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good practical catholic: useful a mission time. 
A onelegged sailor, swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his crutches, growled some notes. He jerked short before the convent of the sisters o charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the very reverend Joh Conmee S. J. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for his purse held, he knew, one silver crown. 
Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. He thought, but not for long, o soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off by cannonballs, ending thei days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal Wolsey’s words: If I had served m God as I have served my king He would not have abandoned me in my old days. He walked by the treeshade of sunnywinking leaves: and towards him came th wife of Mr David Sheehy M. P. 
—Very well, indeed, father. And you, father? 
Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would go to Buxton probably fo the waters. And her boys, were they getting on well at Belvedere? Was that so?Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that. And Mr Sheehy himself? Stil in London. The house was still sitting, to be sure it was. Beautiful weather i was, delightful indeed. Yes, it was very probable that Father Bernard Vaugha would come again to preach. O, yes: a very great success. A wonderful ma really. 
Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy M. P. Iooking s well and he begged to be remembered to Mr David Sheehy M. P. Yes, he woul certainly call. 
—Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy. 
Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at the je beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled yet again, in going. H had cleaned his teeth, he knew, with arecanut paste. 
Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled for he thought on Father Bernar Vaughan’s droll eyes and cockney voice. 
—Pilate! Wy don’t you old back that owlin mob? 
A zealous man, however. Really he was. And really did great good in his way. Beyond a doubt. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the Irish. Of goo family too would one think it? Welsh, were they not? 
O, lest he forget. That letter to father provincial. 
Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of Mountjoy square. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The little house. Aha. And were they good boy at school? O. That was very good now. And what was his name? Jack Sohan. An his name? Ger. Gallaher. And the other little man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, that was a very nice name to have. 
Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynam and pointe to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street. 
—But mind you don’t post yourself into the box, little man, he said. 
The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed: 
—O, sir. 
—Well, let me see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said. 
Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmee’s letter t father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox. Father Conme smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoy square east. 
Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slate frockcoa with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers, canary glove and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportment most respectfully too the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at the corner of Dignam’s court. 
Was that not Mrs M’Guinness? 
Mrs M’Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from the farthe footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled and saluted. How di she do? 
A fine carriage she had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And to thin that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a... what should he say?... such  queenly mien. 
Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at the shutup fre church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B. A. will (D. V.) speak. Th incumbent they called him. He felt it incumbent on him to say a few words. Bu one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They acted according to thei lights. 
Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the North Circular road. I was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such an important thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be. 
A band of satchelled schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. All raised untid caps. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly. Christian brothe boys. 
Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. Saint Joseph’ church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous females. Father Conmee raised hi hat to the Blessed Sacrament. Virtuous: but occasionally they were als badtempered. 
Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift nobleman. An now it was an office or something. 
Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and was saluted by M William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop. Father Conmee salute Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odours that came from baconflitches an ample cools of butter. He passed Grogan’s the Tobacconist against whic newsboards leaned and told of a dreadful catastrophe in New York. In Americ those things were continually happening. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared. Still, an act of perfect contrition. 
Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergin’s publichouse against the window of whic two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him and were saluted. 
Father Conmee passed H. J. O’Neill’s funeral establishment where Corny Kellehe totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade of hay. A constable o his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmee saluted the constable. I Youkstetter’s, the porkbutcher’s, Father Conmee observed pig’s puddings, whit and black and red, lie neatly curled in tubes. 
Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a turfbarge,  towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty straw seate amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above him. It was idyllic:and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of the Creator who had made tur to be in bogs whence men might dig it out and bring it to town and hamlet t make fires in the houses of poor people. 
On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S. J. of saint Franci Xavier’s church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward bound tram. 
Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas Dudley C. C. of sain Agatha’s church, north William street, on to Newcomen bridge. 
At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward bound tram for h disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island. 
Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tucked with care i the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, a sixpence and fiv pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his purse. Passing the iv church he reflected that the ticket inspector usually made his visit when on had carelessly thrown away the ticket. The solemnity of the occupants of th car seemed to Father Conmee excessive for a journey so short and cheap. Fathe Conmee liked cheerful decorum. 
It was a peaceful day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father Conme had finished explaining and looked down. His wife, Father Conmee supposed.  tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentleman with the glasses. Sh raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so gently, tiptapping her smal gloved fist on her opening mouth and smiled tinily, sweetly. 
Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived also that th awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge of the seat. 
Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the mouth o the awkward old man who had the shaky head. 
At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, an old woma rose suddenly from her place to alight. The conductor pulled the bellstrap t stay the car for her. She passed out with her basket and a marketnet: an Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net and basket down: and Fathe Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed the end of the penny fare, sh was one of those good souls who had always to be told twice bless you, m child, that they have been absolved, pray for me. But they had s many worries in life, so many cares, poor creatures. 
From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips at Fathe Conmee. 
Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow men and of hi sermon on saint Peter Claver S. J. and the African mission and of th propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and brown and yello souls that had not received the baptism of water when their last hour came lik a thief in the night. That book by the Belgian jesuit, Le Nombre de Élus, seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those were millions o human souls created by God in His Own likeness to whom the faith had not (D. V.)been brought. But they were God’s souls, created by God. It seemed to Fathe Conmee a pity that they should all be lost, a waste, if one might say. 
At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the conductor an saluted in his turn. 
The Malahide road was quiet. It pleased Father Conmee, road and name. Th joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide, immediat hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining. Then came the cal to arms and she was maid, wife and widow in one day. Those were old worldis days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old times in the barony. 
Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book Old Times in th Barony and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and o Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere. 
A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of lough Ennel, Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the evening, not startle when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth? Not the jealous lord Belveder and not her confessor if she had not committed adultery fully, eiaculati seminis inter vas naturale mulieris, with her husband’s brother? She woul half confess if she had not all sinned as women did. Only God knew and she an he, her husband’s brother. 
Father Conmee thought of that tyrannous incontinence, needed however for man’ race on earth, and of the ways of God which were not our ways. 
Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. He was humane and honoure there. He bore in mind secrets confessed and he smiled at smiling noble face in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with full fruit clusters. And the hands of  bride and of a bridegroom, noble to noble, were impalmed by Don John Conmee. 
It was a charming day. 
The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages, curtseyin to him with ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock of small white cloud going slowly down the wind. Moutonner, the French said. A just an homely word. 
Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoning clouds ove Rathcoffey. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble of Clongowe field. He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard the cries of th boys’ lines at their play, young cries in the quiet evening. He was thei rector: his reign was mild. 
Father Conmee drew off his gloves and took his rededged breviary out. An ivor bookmark told him the page. 
Nones. He should have read that before lunch. But lady Maxwell had come. 
Father Conmee read in secret Pater and Ave and crossed hi breast. Deus in adiutorium. 
He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading till he came t Res in Beati immaculati: Principium verborum tuorum veritas: i eternum omnia iudicia iustitiæ tuæ. 
A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came a young woma with wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young man raised his cap abruptly:the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care detached from her light skir a clinging twig. 
Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his breviary. Sin: Principes persecuti sunt me gratis: et a verbis tuis formidavit co meum. 
*    *    * 
Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his drooping eye at  pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He pulled himself erect, went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brass furnishings. Chewing hi blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came to the doorway. There he tilte his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes and leaned against the doorcase, lookin idly out. 
Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram on Newcomen bridge. 
Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hat downtilted, chewing his blade of hay. 
Constable 57C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day. 
—That’s a fine day, Mr Kelleher. 
—Ay, Corny Kelleher said. 
—It’s very close, the constable said. 
Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouth while  generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth a coin. 
—What’s the best news? he asked. 
—I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with bate breath. 
*    *    * 
A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell’s corner, skirtin Rabaiotti’s icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street. Towards Larr O’Rourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled unamiably: 
—For England... 
He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus, halted an growled: 
—home and beauty. 
J. J. O’Molloy’s white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was in th warehouse with a visitor. 
A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and dropped it into th cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced sourly at th unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself forward four strides. 
He halted and growled angrily: 
—For England... 
Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him, gaping a his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths. 
He swung himself forward in vigorous jerks, halted, lifted his head towards  window and bayed deeply: 
—home and beauty. 
The gay sweet chirping whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased. The blin of the window was drawn aside. A card Unfurnished Apartments slippe from the sash and fell. A plump bare generous arm shone, was seen, held fort from a white petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman’s hand flung forth  coin over the area railings. It fell on the path. 
One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up and dropped it into the minstrel’ cap, saying: 
—There, sir. 
*    *    * 
Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming kitchen. 
—Did you put in the books? Boody asked. 
Maggy at the range rammed down a greyish mass beneath bubbling suds twice wit her potstick and wiped her brow. 
—They wouldn’t give anything on them, she said. 
Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his thinsocked ankles tickled b stubble. 
—Where did you try? Boody asked. 
—M’Guinness’s. 
Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table. 
—Bad cess to her big face! she cried. 
Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes. 
—What’s in the pot? she asked. 
—Shirts, Maggy said. 
Boody cried angrily: 
—Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat? 
Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked: 
—And what’s in this? 
A heavy fume gushed in answer. 
—Peasoup, Maggy said. 
—Where did you get it? Katey asked. 
—Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said. 
The lacquey rang his bell. 
—Barang! 
Boody sat down at the table and said hungrily: 
—Give us it here. 
Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. Katey, sittin opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her mouth rando crumbs: 
—A good job we have that much. Where’s Dilly? 
—Gone to meet father, Maggy said. 
Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added: 
—Our father who art not in heaven. 
Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Katey’s bowl, exclaimed: 
—Boody! For shame! 
A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down the Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed around th bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains, between th Customhouse old dock and George’s quay. 
*    *    * 
The blond girl in Thornton’s bedded the wicker basket with rustling fibre. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper and a smal jar. 
—Put these in first, will you? he said. 
—Yes, sir, the blond girl said. And the fruit on top. 
—That’ll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said. 
She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by tail, and among them ripe shameface peaches. 
Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the fruitsmellin shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red tomatoes, sniffin smells. 
H. E. L. Y.’S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane, ploddin towards their goal. 
He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch from his fo and held it at its chain’s length. 
—Can you send them by tram? Now? 
A darkbacked figure under Merchants’ arch scanned books on the hawker’s cart. 
—Certainly, sir. Is it in the city? 
—O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes. 
The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil. 
—Will you write the address, sir? 
Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her. 
—Send it at once, will you? he said. It’s for an invalid. 
—Yes, sir. I will, sir. 
Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers’ pocket. 
—What’s the damage? he asked. 
The blond girl’s slim fingers reckoned the fruits. 
Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. He took a re carnation from the tall stemglass. 
—This for me? he asked gallantly. 
The blond girl glanced sideways at him, got up regardless, with his tie a bi crooked, blushing. 
—Yes, sir, she said. 
Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches. 
Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the re flower between his smiling teeth. 
—May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly. 
*    *    * 
—Ma! Almidano Artifoni said. 
He gazed over Stephen’s shoulder at Goldsmith’s knobby poll. 
Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore, gripping th handrests. Palefaces. Men’s arms frankly round their stunted forms. They looke from Trinity to the blind columned porch of the bank of Ireland where pigeon roocoocooed. 
—Anch’io ho avuto di queste idee, Almidano Artifoni said, quand’ ero giovine come Lei. Eppoi mi sono convinto che il mondo è un bestia. È peccato. Perchè la sua voce... sarebbe un cespite di rendita, via. Invece, Lei si sacrifica. 
—Sacrifizio incruento, Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplan in slow swingswong from its midpoint, lightly. 
—Speriamo, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. Ma, di retta a me. Ci rifletta. 
By the stern stone hand of Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tram unloade straggling Highland soldiers of a band. 
—Ci rifletterò, Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg. 
—Ma, sul serio, eh? Almidano Artifoni said. 
His heavy hand took Stephen’s firmly. Human eyes. They gazed curiously a instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram. 
—Eccolo, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. Venga  trovarmi e ci pensi. Addio, caro. 
—Arrivederla, maestro, Stephen said, raising his hat when his han was freed. E grazie. 
—Di che? Almidano Artifoni said. Scusi, eh? Tante bell cose! 
Almidano Artifoni, holding up a baton of rolled music as a signal, trotted o stout trousers after the Dalkey tram. In vain he trotted, signalling in vai among the rout of barekneed gillies smuggling implements of music throug Trinity gates. 
*    *    * 
Miss Dunne hid the Capel street library copy of The Woman in White fa back in her drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into her typewriter. 
Too much mystery business in it. Is he in love with that one, Marion? Change i and get another by Mary Cecil Haye. 
The disk shot down the groove, wobbled a while, ceased and ogled them: six. 
Miss Dunne clicked on the keyboard: 
—16 June 1904. 
Five tallwhitehatted sandwichmen between Monypeny’s corner and the slab wher Wolfe Tone’s statue was not, eeled themselves turning H. E. L. Y.’S and plodde back as they had come. 
Then she stared at the large poster of Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, and, listlessly lolling, scribbled on the jotter sixteens and capital esses. Mustar hair and dauby cheeks. She’s not nicelooking, is she? The way she’s holding u her bit of a skirt. Wonder will that fellow be at the band tonight. If I coul get that dressmaker to make a concertina skirt like Susy Nagle’s. They kick ou grand. Shannon and all the boatclub swells never took his eyes off her. Hope t goodness he won’t keep me here till seven. 
The telephone rang rudely by her ear. 
—Hello. Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, sir. I’ll ring them up after five. Onl those two, sir, for Belfast and Liverpool. All right, sir. Then I can go afte six if you’re not back. A quarter after. Yes, sir. Twentyseven and six. I’l tell him. Yes: one, seven, six. 
She scribbled three figures on an envelope. 
—Mr Boylan! Hello! That gentleman from Sport was in looking fo you. Mr Lenehan, yes. He said he’ll be in the Ormond at four. No, sir. Yes, sir. I’ll ring them up after five. 
*    *    * 
Two pink faces turned in the flare of the tiny torch. 
—Who’s that? Ned Lambert asked. Is that Crotty? 
—Ringabella and Crosshaven, a voice replied groping for foothold. 
—Hello, Jack, is that yourself? Ned Lambert said, raising in salute hi pliant lath among the flickering arches. Come on. Mind your steps there. 
The vesta in the clergyman’s uplifted hand consumed itself in a long soft flam and was let fall. At their feet its red speck died: and mouldy air closed roun them. 
—How interesting! a refined accent said in the gloom. 
—Yes, sir, Ned Lambert said heartily. We are standing in the histori council chamber of saint Mary’s abbey where silken Thomas proclaimed himself  rebel in 1534. This is the most historic spot in all Dublin. O’Madden Burke i going to write something about it one of these days. The old bank of Irelan was over the way till the time of the union and the original jews’ temple wa here too before they built their synagogue over in Adelaide road. You wer never here before, Jack, were you? 
—No, Ned. 
—He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if my memor serves me. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court. 
—That’s right, Ned Lambert said. That’s quite right, sir. 
—If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to allo me perhaps... 
—Certainly, Ned Lambert said. Bring the camera whenever you like. I’l get those bags cleared away from the windows. You can take it from here or fro here. 
In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the pile seedbags and points of vantage on the floor. 
From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard. 
—I’m deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I won’t trespass o your valuable time... 
—You’re welcome, sir, Ned Lambert said. Drop in whenever you like. Nex week, say. Can you see? 
—Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very pleased to have met you. 
—Pleasure is mine, sir, Ned Lambert answered. 
He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away among th pillars. With J. J. O’Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary’s abbey wher draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut meal, O’Connor, Wexford. 
He stood to read the card in his hand. 
—The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. Present address: Saint Michael’s, Sallins. Nice young chap he is. He’s writing a book about the Fitzgeralds h told me. He’s well up in history, faith. 
The young woman with slow care detached from her light skirt a clinging twig. 
—I thought you were at a new gunpowder plot, J. J. O’Molloy said. 
Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in the air. 
—God! he cried. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildar after he set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? I’m bloody sorry  did it, says he, but I declare to God I thought the archbishop wa inside. He mightn’t like it, though. What? God, I’ll tell him anyhow. Tha was the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were all of them, th Geraldines. 
The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. He slapped  piebald haunch quivering near him and cried: 
—Woa, sonny! 
He turned to J. J. O’Molloy and asked: 
—Well, Jack. What is it? What’s the trouble? Wait awhile. Hold hard. 
With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an instant, sneezed loudly. 
—Chow! he said. Blast you! 
—The dust from those sacks, J. J. O’Molloy said politely. 
—No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught a... cold night before... blast you soul... night before last... and there was a hell of a lot of draught... 
He held his handkerchief ready for the coming... 
—I was... Glasnevin this morning... poor little... what do you cal him... Chow!... Mother of Moses! 
*    *    * 
Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his clare waistcoat. 
—See? he said. Say it’s turn six. In here, see. Turn Now On. 
He slid it into the left slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbled  while, ceased, ogling them: six. 
Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the consolidate taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying the costbag o Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the admiralty division o king’s bench to the court of appeal an elderly female with false teeth smilin incredulously and a black silk skirt of great amplitude. 
—See? he said. See now the last one I put in is over here: Turns Over. The impact. Leverage, see? 
He showed them the rising column of disks on the right. 
—Smart idea, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late ca see what turn is on and what turns are over. 
—See? Tom Rochford said. 
He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop: four. Turn Now On. 
—I’ll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One goo turn deserves another. 
—Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him I’m Boylan with impatience. 
—Goodnight, M’Coy said abruptly. When you two begin... 
Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it. 
—But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked. 
—Tooraloo, Lenehan said. See you later. 
He followed M’Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court. 
—He’s a hero, he said simply. 
—I know, M’Coy said. The drain, you mean. 
—Drain? Lenehan said. It was down a manhole. 
They passed Dan Lowry’s musichall where Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile. 
Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall Leneha showed M’Coy how the whole thing was. One of those manholes like a blood gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it, half choked with sewe gas. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky’s vest and all, with the rope roun him. And be damned but he got the rope round the poor devil and the two wer hauled up. 
—The act of a hero, he said. 
At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past them fo Jervis street. 
—This way, he said, walking to the right. I want to pop into Lynam’s t see Sceptre’s starting price. What’s the time by your gold watch and chain? 
M’Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses’ sombre office, then at O’Neill’s clock. 
—After three, he said. Who’s riding her? 
—O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game filly she is. 
While he waited in Temple bar M’Coy dodged a banana peel with gentle pushes o his toe from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damn easy get a nasty fal there coming along tight in the dark. 
The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal cavalcade. 
—Even money, Lenehan said returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons i there going to back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn’t an earthly. Through here. 
They went up the steps and under Merchants’ arch. A darkbacked figure scanne books on the hawker’s cart. 
—There he is, Lenehan said. 
—Wonder what he’s buying, M’Coy said, glancing behind. 
—Leopoldo or the Bloom is on the Rye, Lenehan said. 
—He’s dead nuts on sales, M’Coy said. I was with him one day and h bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. There were fin plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and comets wit long tails. Astronomy it was about. 
Lenehan laughed. 
—I’ll tell you a damn good one about comets’ tails, he said. Come over i the sun. 
They crossed to the metal bridge and went along Wellington quay by th riverwall. 
Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan’s, late Fehrenbach’s, carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks. 
—There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan sai eagerly. The annual dinner, you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor wa there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan Dawson spoke an there was music. Bartell d’Arcy sang and Benjamin Dollard... 
—I know, M’Coy broke in. My missus sang there once. 
—Did she? Lenehan said. 
A card Unfurnished Apartments reappeared on the windowsash of number  Eccles street. 
He checked his tale a moment but broke out in a wheezy laugh. 
—But wait till I tell you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had th catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife were there. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and curacoa to which we di ample justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came solids. Cold joint galore and mince pies... 
—I know, M’Coy said. The year the missus was there... 
Lenehan linked his arm warmly. 
—But wait till I tell you, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after al the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o’clock the mornin after the night before. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter’s night on th Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and Chris Callinan were on one side of the car and  was with the wife on the other. We started singing glees and duets: Lo, th early beam of morning. She was well primed with a good load of Delahunt’ port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody car gave I had her bumping u against me. Hell’s delights! She has a fine pair, God bless her. Like that. 
He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning: 
—I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. Kno what I mean? 
His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his eyes tight in delight, hi body shrinking, and blew a sweet chirp from his lips. 
—The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She’s a game mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the comets in th heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear and Hercules and th dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, I was lost, so to speak, i the milky way. He knows them all, faith. At last she spotted a weeny weeshy on miles away. And what star is that, Poldy? says she. By God, she ha Bloom cornered. That one, is it? says Chris Callinan, sure that’ only what you might call a pinprick. By God, he wasn’t far wide of th mark. 
Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft laughter. 
—I’m weak, he gasped. 
M’Coy’s white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave. Lenehan walke on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his hindhead rapidly. H glanced sideways in the sunlight at M’Coy. 
—He’s a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. He’s not on of your common or garden... you know... There’s a touch of the artist about ol Bloom. 
*    *    * 
Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of The Awful Disclosures of Maria Monk, then of Aristotle’s Masterpiece. Crooked botched print. Plates: infant cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of slaughtered cows. Lots o them like that at this moment all over the world. All butting with their skull to get out of it. Child born every minute somewhere. Mrs Purefoy. 
He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: Tales of the Ghett by Leopold von Sacher Masoch. 
—That I had, he said, pushing it by. 
The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter. 
—Them are two good ones, he said. 
Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined mouth. He ben to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against his unbuttone waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain. 
On O’Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment and gay appare of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c. 
Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. Fair Tyrants by James Lovebirch. Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes. 
He opened it. Thought so. 
A woman’s voice behind the dingy curtain. Listen: the man. 
No: she wouldn’t like that much. Got her it once. 
He read the other title: Sweets of Sin. More in her line. Let us see. 
He read where his finger opened. 
—All the dollarbills her husband gave her were spent in the stores o wondrous gowns and costliest frillies. For him! For Raoul! 
Yes. This. Here. Try. 
—Her mouth glued on his in a luscious voluptuous kiss while his hand felt for the opulent curves inside her déshabillé. 
Yes. Take this. The end. 
—You are late, he spoke hoarsely, eying her with a suspicious glare. 
The beautiful woman threw off her sabletrimmed wrap, displaying her queenl shoulders and heaving embonpoint. An imperceptible smile played round he perfect lips as she turned to him calmly. 
Mr Bloom read again: The beautiful woman. 
Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. Flesh yielded amply ami rumpled clothes: whites of eyes swooning up. His nostrils arched themselves fo prey. Melting breast ointments (for him! For Raoul!). Armpits’ onion sweat. Fishgluey slime (her heaving embonpoint!). Feel! Press! Crished!Sulphur dung of lions! 
Young! Young! 
An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of chancery, king’s bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the lord chancellor’ court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns versus the owners of th barque Mona, in the court of appeal reservation of judgment in the case o Harvey versus the Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation. 
Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy curtains. The shopman’s uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven reddened face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on the floor. He put hi boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along it, and bent, showing  rawskinned crown, scantily haired. 
Mr Bloom beheld it. 
Mastering his troubled breath, he said: 
—I’ll take this one. 
The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum. 
—Sweets of Sin, he said, tapping on it. That’s a good one. 
*    *    * 
The lacquey by the door of Dillon’s auctionrooms shook his handbell twice agai and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet. 
Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell, th cries of the auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains. Fiv shillings. Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance on fiv shillings? Going for five shillings. 
The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it: 
—Barang! 
Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint. J. A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. Gahan, their stretched necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library. 
Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round from Williams’s row. He halte near his daughter. 
—It’s time for you, she said. 
—Stand up straight for the love of the lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said. Ar you trying to imitate your uncle John, the cornetplayer, head upon shoulder?Melancholy God! 
Dilly shrugged her shoulders. Mr Dedalus placed his hands on them and held the back. 
—Stand up straight, girl, he said. You’ll get curvature of the spine. D you know what you look like? 
He let his head sink suddenly down and forward, hunching his shoulders an dropping his underjaw. 
—Give it up, father, Dilly said. All the people are looking at you. 
Mr Dedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache. 
—Did you get any money? Dilly asked. 
—Where would I get money? Mr Dedalus said. There is no-one in Dubli would lend me fourpence. 
—You got some, Dilly said, looking in his eyes. 
—How do you know that? Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek. 
Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked boldly along James’ street. 
—I know you did, Dilly answered. Were you in the Scotch house now? 
—I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the little nuns taugh you to be so saucy? Here. 
He handed her a shilling. 
—See if you can do anything with that, he said. 
—I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Give me more than that. 
—Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. You’re like the rest o them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor mother died. But wait awhile. You’ll all get a short shrift and a long day from me. Lo blackguardism! I’m going to get rid of you. Wouldn’t care if I was stretche out stiff. He’s dead. The man upstairs is dead. 
He left her and walked on. Dilly followed quickly and pulled his coat. 
—Well, what is it? he said, stopping. 
The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs. 
—Barang! 
—Curse your bloody blatant soul, Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him. 
The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell bu feebly: 
—Bang! 
Mr Dedalus stared at him. 
—Watch him, he said. It’s instructive. I wonder will he allow us to talk. 
—You got more than that, father, Dilly said. 
—I’m going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. I’ll leave yo all where Jesus left the jews. Look, there’s all I have. I got two shilling from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the funeral. 
He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously. 
—Can’t you look for some money somewhere? Dilly said. 
Mr Dedalus thought and nodded. 
—I will, he said gravely. I looked all along the gutter in O’Connel street. I’ll try this one now. 
—You’re very funny, Dilly said, grinning. 
—Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of milk fo yourself and a bun or a something. I’ll be home shortly. 
He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on. 
The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out o Parkgate. 
—I’m sure you have another shilling, Dilly said. 
The lacquey banged loudly. 
Mr Dedalus amid the din walked off, murmuring to himself with a pursing mincin mouth gently: 
—The little nuns! Nice little things! O, sure they wouldn’t do anything!O, sure they wouldn’t really! Is it little sister Monica! 
*    *    * 
From the sundial towards James’s gate walked Mr Kernan, pleased with the orde he had booked for Pulbrook Robertson, boldly along James’s street, pas Shackleton’s offices. Got round him all right. How do you do, Mr Crimmins?First rate, sir. I was afraid you might be up in your other establishment i Pimlico. How are things going? Just keeping alive. Lovely weather we’re having. Yes, indeed. Good for the country. Those farmers are always grumbling. I’l just take a thimbleful of your best gin, Mr Crimmins. A small gin, sir. Yes, sir. Terrible affair that General Slocum explosion. Terrible, terrible!A thousand casualties. And heartrending scenes. Men trampling down women an children. Most brutal thing. What do they say was the cause? Spontaneou combustion. Most scandalous revelation. Not a single lifeboat would float an the firehose all burst. What I can’t understand is how the inspectors eve allowed a boat like that... Now, you’re talking straight, Mr Crimmins. You kno why? Palm oil. Is that a fact? Without a doubt. Well now, look at that. An America they say is the land of the free. I thought we were bad here. 
I smiled at him. America, I said quietly, just like that. What is it?The sweepings of every country including our own. Isn’t that true? That’s  fact. 
Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where there’s money going there’s alway someone to pick it up. 
Saw him looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like a dress appearance. Bowls them over. 
—Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things? 
—Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping. 
Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of Pete Kennedy, hairdresser. Stylish coat, beyond a doubt. Scott of Dawson street. Well worth the half sovereign I gave Neary for it. Never built under thre guineas. Fits me down to the ground. Some Kildare street club toff had i probably. John Mulligan, the manager of the Hibernian bank, gave me a ver sharp eye yesterday on Carlisle bridge as if he remembered me. 
Aham! Must dress the character for those fellows. Knight of the road. Gentleman. And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour of your custom again, sir. The cup that cheers but not inebriates, as the old saying has it. 
North wall and sir John Rogerson’s quay, with hulls and anchorchains, sailin westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on the ferrywash, Elijah is coming. 
Mr Kernan glanced in farewell at his image. High colour, of course. Grizzle moustache. Returned Indian officer. Bravely he bore his stumpy body forward o spatted feet, squaring his shoulders. Is that Ned Lambert’s brother over th way, Sam? What? Yes. He’s as like it as damn it. No. The windscreen of tha motorcar in the sun there. Just a flash like that. Damn like him. 
Aham! Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and his breath. Good dro of gin, that was. His frocktails winked in bright sunshine to his fat strut. 
Down there Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered. Greasy black rope. Dog licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant’s wife drove by i her noddy. 
Bad times those were. Well, well. Over and done with. Great topers too. Fourbottle men. 
Let me see. Is he buried in saint Michan’s? Or no, there was a midnight buria in Glasnevin. Corpse brought in through a secret door in the wall. Dignam i there now. Went out in a puff. Well, well. Better turn down here. Make  detour. 
Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope of Watling street by the corner o Guinness’s visitors’ waitingroom. Outside the Dublin Distillers Company’ stores an outside car without fare or jarvey stood, the reins knotted to th wheel. Damn dangerous thing. Some Tipperary bosthoon endangering the lives o the citizens. Runaway horse. 
Denis Breen with his tomes, weary of having waited an hour in John Henr Menton’s office, led his wife over O’Connell bridge, bound for the office o Messrs Collis and Ward. 
Mr Kernan approached Island street. 
Times of the troubles. Must ask Ned Lambert to lend me those reminiscences o sir Jonah Barrington. When you look back on it all now in a kind o retrospective arrangement. Gaming at Daly’s. No cardsharping then. One of thos fellows got his hand nailed to the table by a dagger. Somewhere here lor Edward Fitzgerald escaped from major Sirr. Stables behind Moira house. 
Damn good gin that was. 
Fine dashing young nobleman. Good stock, of course. That ruffian, that sha squire, with his violet gloves gave him away. Course they were on the wron side. They rose in dark and evil days. Fine poem that is: Ingram. They wer gentlemen. Ben Dollard does sing that ballad touchingly. Masterly rendition. 
At the siege of Ross did my father fall. 
A cavalcade in easy trot along Pembroke quay passed, outriders leaping, leapin in their, in their saddles. Frockcoats. Cream sunshades. 
Mr Kernan hurried forward, blowing pursily. 
His Excellency! Too bad! Just missed that by a hair. Damn it! What a pity! 
*    *    * 
Stephen Dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidary’s fingers prov a timedulled chain. Dust webbed the window and the showtrays. Dust darkened th toiling fingers with their vulture nails. Dust slept on dull coils of bronz and silver, lozenges of cinnabar, on rubies, leprous and winedark stones. 
Born all in the dark wormy earth, cold specks of fire, evil, lights shining i the darkness. Where fallen archangels flung the stars of their brows. Mudd swinesnouts, hands, root and root, gripe and wrest them. 
She dances in a foul gloom where gum bums with garlic. A sailorman, rustbearded, sips from a beaker rum and eyes her. A long and seafed silent rut. She dances, capers, wagging her sowish haunches and her hips, on her gros belly flapping a ruby egg. 
Old Russell with a smeared shammy rag burnished again his gem, turned it an held it at the point of his Moses’ beard. Grandfather ape gloating on a stole hoard. 
And you who wrest old images from the burial earth? The brainsick words o sophists: Antisthenes. A lore of drugs. Orient and immortal wheat standing fro everlasting to everlasting. 
Two old women fresh from their whiff of the briny trudged through Irishtow along London bridge road, one with a sanded tired umbrella, one with  midwife’s bag in which eleven cockles rolled. 
The whirr of flapping leathern bands and hum of dynamos from the powerhous urged Stephen to be on. Beingless beings. Stop! Throb always without you an the throb always within. Your heart you sing of. I between them. Where? Betwee two roaring worlds where they swirl, I. Shatter them, one and both. But stu myself too in the blow. Shatter me you who can. Bawd and butcher were th words. I say! Not yet awhile. A look around. 
Yes, quite true. Very large and wonderful and keeps famous time. You say right, sir. A Monday morning, ’twas so, indeed. 
Stephen went down Bedford row, the handle of the ash clacking against hi shoulderblade. In Clohissey’s window a faded 1860 print of Heenan boxing Sayer held his eye. Staring backers with square hats stood round the roped prizering. The heavyweights in tight loincloths proposed gently each to other his bulbou fists. And they are throbbing: heroes’ hearts. 
He turned and halted by the slanted bookcart. 
—Twopence each, the huckster said. Four for sixpence. 
Tattered pages. The Irish Beekeeper. Life and Miracles of the Curé of Ars. Pocket Guide to Killarney. 
I might find here one of my pawned schoolprizes. Stephano Dedalo, alumn optimo, palmam ferenti. 
Father Conmee, having read his little hours, walked through the hamlet o Donnycarney, murmuring vespers. 
Binding too good probably. What is this? Eighth and ninth book of Moses. Secre of all secrets. Seal of King David. Thumbed pages: read and read. Who ha passed here before me? How to soften chapped hands. Recipe for white win vinegar. How to win a woman’s love. For me this. Say the following talisma three times with hands folded: 
—Se el yilo nebrakada femininum! Amor me solo! Sanktus! Amen. 
Who wrote this? Charms and invocations of the most blessed abbot Peter Salank to all true believers divulged. As good as any other abbot’s charms, a mumbling Joachim’s. Down, baldynoddle, or we’ll wool your wool. 
—What are you doing here, Stephen? 
Dilly’s high shoulders and shabby dress. 
Shut the book quick. Don’t let see. 
—What are you doing? Stephen said. 
A Stuart face of nonesuch Charles, lank locks falling at its sides. It glowe as she crouched feeding the fire with broken boots. I told her of Paris. Lat lieabed under a quilt of old overcoats, fingering a pinchbeck bracelet, Da Kelly’s token. Nebrakada femininum. 
—What have you there? Stephen asked. 
—I bought it from the other cart for a penny, Dilly said, laughin nervously. Is it any good? 
My eyes they say she has. Do others see me so? Quick, far and daring. Shadow o my mind. 
He took the coverless book from her hand. Chardenal’s French primer. 
—What did you buy that for? he asked. To learn French? 
She nodded, reddening and closing tight her lips. 
Show no surprise. Quite natural. 
—Here, Stephen said. It’s all right. Mind Maggy doesn’t pawn it on you.  suppose all my books are gone. 
—Some, Dilly said. We had to. 
She is drowning. Agenbite. Save her. Agenbite. All against us. She will drow me with her, eyes and hair. Lank coils of seaweed hair around me, my heart, m soul. Salt green death. 
We. 
Agenbite of inwit. Inwit’s agenbite. 
Misery! Misery! 
*    *    * 
—Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. How are things? 
—Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping. 
They clasped hands loudly outside Reddy and Daughter’s. Father Cowley brushe his moustache often downward with a scooping hand. 
—What’s the best news? Mr Dedalus said. 
—Why then not much, Father Cowley said. I’m barricaded up, Simon, wit two men prowling around the house trying to effect an entrance. 
—Jolly, Mr Dedalus said. Who is it? 
—O, Father Cowley said. A certain gombeen man of our acquaintance. 
—With a broken back, is it? Mr Dedalus asked. 
—The same, Simon, Father Cowley answered. Reuben of that ilk. I’m jus waiting for Ben Dollard. He’s going to say a word to long John to get him t take those two men off. All I want is a little time. 
He looked with vague hope up and down the quay, a big apple bulging in hi neck. 
—I know, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Poor old bockedy Ben! He’s alway doing a good turn for someone. Hold hard! 
He put on his glasses and gazed towards the metal bridge an instant. 
—There he is, by God, he said, arse and pockets. 
Ben Dollard’s loose blue cutaway and square hat above large slops crossed th quay in full gait from the metal bridge. He came towards them at an amble, scratching actively behind his coattails. 
As he came near Mr Dedalus greeted: 
—Hold that fellow with the bad trousers. 
—Hold him now, Ben Dollard said. 
Mr Dedalus eyed with cold wandering scorn various points of Ben Dollard’ figure. Then, turning to Father Cowley with a nod, he muttered sneeringly: 
—That’s a pretty garment, isn’t it, for a summer’s day? 
—Why, God eternally curse your soul, Ben Dollard growled furiously,  threw out more clothes in my time than you ever saw. 
He stood beside them beaming, on them first and on his roomy clothes fro points of which Mr Dedalus flicked fluff, saying: 
—They were made for a man in his health, Ben, anyhow. 
—Bad luck to the jewman that made them, Ben Dollard said. Thanks be t God he’s not paid yet. 
—And how is that basso profondo, Benjamin? Father Cowley asked. 
Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, murmuring, glassyeyed, strode past the Kildare street club. 
Ben Dollard frowned and, making suddenly a chanter’s mouth, gave forth a dee note. 
—Aw! he said. 
—That’s the style, Mr Dedalus said, nodding to its drone. 
—What about that? Ben Dollard said. Not too dusty? What? 
He turned to both. 
—That’ll do, Father Cowley said, nodding also. 
The reverend Hugh C. Love walked from the old chapterhouse of saint Mary’ abbey past James and Charles Kennedy’s, rectifiers, attended by Geraldines tal and personable, towards the Tholsel beyond the ford of hurdles. 
Ben Dollard with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward, hi joyful fingers in the air. 
—Come along with me to the subsheriff’s office, he said. I want to sho you the new beauty Rock has for a bailiff. He’s a cross between Lobengula an Lynchehaun. He’s well worth seeing, mind you. Come along. I saw John Henr Menton casually in the Bodega just now and it will cost me a fall if I don’t... Wait awhile... We’re on the right lay, Bob, believe you me. 
—For a few days tell him, Father Cowley said anxiously. 
Ben Dollard halted and stared, his loud orifice open, a dangling button of hi coat wagging brightbacked from its thread as he wiped away the heavy shraum that clogged his eyes to hear aright. 
—What few days? he boomed. Hasn’t your landlord distrained for rent? 
—He has, Father Cowley said. 
—Then our friend’s writ is not worth the paper it’s printed on, Be Dollard said. The landlord has the prior claim. I gave him all the particulars. 29 Windsor avenue. Love is the name? 
—That’s right, Father Cowley said. The reverend Mr Love. He’s a ministe in the country somewhere. But are you sure of that? 
—You can tell Barabbas from me, Ben Dollard said, that he can put tha writ where Jacko put the nuts. 
He led Father Cowley boldly forward, linked to his bulk. 
—Filberts I believe they were, Mr Dedalus said, as he dropped his glasse on his coatfront, following them. 
*    *    * 
—The youngster will be all right, Martin Cunningham said, as they passe out of the Castleyard gate. 
The policeman touched his forehead. 
—God bless you, Martin Cunningham said, cheerily. 
He signed to the waiting jarvey who chucked at the reins and set on toward Lord Edward street. 
Bronze by gold, Miss Kennedy’s head by Miss Douce’s head, appeared above th crossblind of the Ormond hotel. 
—Yes, Martin Cunningham said, fingering his beard. I wrote to Fathe Conmee and laid the whole case before him. 
—You could try our friend, Mr Power suggested backward. 
—Boyd? Martin Cunningham said shortly. Touch me not. 
John Wyse Nolan, lagging behind, reading the list, came after them quickly dow Cork hill. 
On the steps of the City hall Councillor Nannetti, descending, hailed Alderma Cowley and Councillor Abraham Lyon ascending. 
The castle car wheeled empty into upper Exchange street. 
—Look here, Martin, John Wyse Nolan said, overtaking them at th Mail office. I see Bloom put his name down for five shillings. 
—Quite right, Martin Cunningham said, taking the list. And put down th five shillings too. 
—Without a second word either, Mr Power said. 
—Strange but true, Martin Cunningham added. 
John Wyse Nolan opened wide eyes. 
—I’ll say there is much kindness in the jew, he quoted, elegantly. 
They went down Parliament street. 
—There’s Jimmy Henry, Mr Power said, just heading for Kavanagh’s. 
—Righto, Martin Cunningham said. Here goes. 
Outside la Maison Claire Blazes Boylan waylaid Jack Mooney’ brother-in-law, humpy, tight, making for the liberties. 
John Wyse Nolan fell back with Mr Power, while Martin Cunningham took the elbo of a dapper little man in a shower of hail suit, who walked uncertainly, wit hasty steps past Micky Anderson’s watches. 
—The assistant town clerk’s corns are giving him some trouble, John Wys Nolan told Mr Power. 
They followed round the corner towards James Kavanagh’s winerooms. The empt castle car fronted them at rest in Essex gate. Martin Cunningham, speakin always, showed often the list at which Jimmy Henry did not glance. 
—And long John Fanning is here too, John Wyse Nolan said, as large a life. 
The tall form of long John Fanning filled the doorway where he stood. 
—Good day, Mr Subsheriff, Martin Cunningham said, as all halted an greeted. 
Long John Fanning made no way for them. He removed his large Henry Cla decisively and his large fierce eyes scowled intelligently over all thei faces. 
—Are the conscript fathers pursuing their peaceful deliberations? he sai with rich acrid utterance to the assistant town clerk. 
Hell open to christians they were having, Jimmy Henry said pettishly, abou their damned Irish language. Where was the marshal, he wanted to know, to kee order in the council chamber. And old Barlow the macebearer laid up wit asthma, no mace on the table, nothing in order, no quorum even, and Hutchinson, the lord mayor, in Llandudno and little Lorcan Sherlock doing locu tenens for him. Damned Irish language, language of our forefathers. 
Long John Fanning blew a plume of smoke from his lips. 
Martin Cunningham spoke by turns, twirling the peak of his beard, to th assistant town clerk and the subsheriff, while John Wyse Nolan held his peace. 
—What Dignam was that? long John Fanning asked. 
Jimmy Henry made a grimace and lifted his left foot. 
—O, my corns! he said plaintively. Come upstairs for goodness’ sake til I sit down somewhere. Uff! Ooo! Mind! 
Testily he made room for himself beside long John Fanning’s flank and passed i and up the stairs. 
—Come on up, Martin Cunningham said to the subsheriff. I don’t think yo knew him or perhaps you did, though. 
With John Wyse Nolan Mr Power followed them in. 
—Decent little soul he was, Mr Power said to the stalwart back of lon John Fanning ascending towards long John Fanning in the mirror. 
—Rather lowsized. Dignam of Menton’s office that was, Martin Cunningha said. 
Long John Fanning could not remember him. 
Clatter of horsehoofs sounded from the air. 
—What’s that? Martin Cunningham said. 
All turned where they stood. John Wyse Nolan came down again. From the coo shadow of the doorway he saw the horses pass Parliament street, harness an glossy pasterns in sunlight shimmering. Gaily they went past before his coo unfriendly eyes, not quickly. In saddles of the leaders, leaping leaders, rod outriders. 
—What was it? Martin Cunningham asked, as they went on up the staircase. 
—The lord lieutenantgeneral and general governor of Ireland, John Wys Nolan answered from the stairfoot. 
*    *    * 
As they trod across the thick carpet Buck Mulligan whispered behind his Panam to Haines: 
—Parnell’s brother. There in the corner. 
They chose a small table near the window, opposite a longfaced man whose bear and gaze hung intently down on a chessboard. 
—Is that he? Haines asked, twisting round in his seat. 
—Yes, Mulligan said. That’s John Howard, his brother, our city marshal. 
John Howard Parnell translated a white bishop quietly and his grey claw went u again to his forehead whereat it rested. An instant after, under its screen, his eyes looked quickly, ghostbright, at his foe and fell once more upon  working corner. 
—I’ll take a mélange, Haines said to the waitress. 
—Two mélanges, Buck Mulligan said. And bring us some scones an butter and some cakes as well. 
When she had gone he said, laughing: 
—We call it D. B. C. because they have damn bad cakes. O, but you misse Dedalus on Hamlet. 
Haines opened his newbought book. 
—I’m sorry, he said. Shakespeare is the happy huntingground of all mind that have lost their balance. 
The onelegged sailor growled at the area of 14 Nelson street: 
—England expects... 
Buck Mulligan’s primrose waistcoat shook gaily to his laughter. 
—You should see him, he said, when his body loses its balance. Wanderin Ængus I call him. 
—I am sure he has an idée fixe, Haines said, pinching his chi thoughtfully with thumb and forefinger. Now I am speculating what it would b likely to be. Such persons always have. 
Buck Mulligan bent across the table gravely. 
—They drove his wits astray, he said, by visions of hell. He will neve capture the Attic note. The note of Swinburne, of all poets, the white deat and the ruddy birth. That is his tragedy. He can never be a poet. The joy o creation... 
—Eternal punishment, Haines said, nodding curtly. I see. I tackled hi this morning on belief. There was something on his mind, I saw. It’s rathe interesting because professor Pokorny of Vienna makes an interesting point ou of that. 
Buck Mulligan’s watchful eyes saw the waitress come. He helped her to unloa her tray. 
—He can find no trace of hell in ancient Irish myth, Haines said, ami the cheerful cups. The moral idea seems lacking, the sense of destiny, o retribution. Rather strange he should have just that fixed idea. Does he writ anything for your movement? 
He sank two lumps of sugar deftly longwise through the whipped cream. Buc Mulligan slit a steaming scone in two and plastered butter over its smokin pith. He bit off a soft piece hungrily. 
—Ten years, he said, chewing and laughing. He is going to write somethin in ten years. 
—Seems a long way off, Haines said, thoughtfully lifting his spoon. Still, I shouldn’t wonder if he did after all. 
He tasted a spoonful from the creamy cone of his cup. 
—This is real Irish cream I take it, he said with forbearance. I don’ want to be imposed on. 
Elijah, skiff, light crumpled throwaway, sailed eastward by flanks of ships an trawlers, amid an archipelago of corks, beyond new Wapping street past Benson’ ferry, and by the threemasted schooner Rosevean from Bridgwater wit bricks. 
*    *    * 
Almidano Artifoni walked past Holles street, past Sewell’s yard. Behind hi Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, with stickumbrelladustcoa dangling, shunned the lamp before Mr Law Smith’s house and, crossing, walke along Merrion square. Distantly behind him a blind stripling tapped his way b the wall of College park. 
Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell walked as far as Mr Lewi Werner’s cheerful windows, then turned and strode back along Merrion square, his stickumbrelladustcoat dangling. 
At the corner of Wilde’s house he halted, frowned at Elijah’s name announced o the Metropolitan hall, frowned at the distant pleasance of duke’s lawn. Hi eyeglass flashed frowning in the sun. With ratsteeth bared he muttered: 
—Coactus volui. 
He strode on for Clare street, grinding his fierce word. 
As he strode past Mr Bloom’s dental windows the sway of his dustcoat brushe rudely from its angle a slender tapping cane and swept onwards, having buffete a thewless body. The blind stripling turned his sickly face after the stridin form. 
—God’s curse on you, he said sourly, whoever you are! You’re blinder no I am, you bitch’s bastard! 
*    *    * 
Opposite Ruggy O’Donohoe’s Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam, pawing the pound an a half of Mangan’s, late Fehrenbach’s, porksteaks he had been sent for, wen along warm Wicklow street dawdling. It was too blooming dull sitting in th parlour with Mrs Stoer and Mrs Quigley and Mrs MacDowell and the blind down an they all at their sniffles and sipping sups of the superior tawny sherry uncl Barney brought from Tunney’s. And they eating crumbs of the cottage fruitcake, jawing the whole blooming time and sighing. 
After Wicklow lane the window of Madame Doyle, courtdress milliner, stoppe him. He stood looking in at the two puckers stripped to their pelts and puttin up their props. From the sidemirrors two mourning Masters Dignam gape silently. Myler Keogh, Dublin’s pet lamb, will meet sergeantmajor Bennett, th Portobello bruiser, for a purse of fifty sovereigns. Gob, that’d be a goo pucking match to see. Myler Keogh, that’s the chap sparring out to him with th green sash. Two bar entrance, soldiers half price. I could easy do a bunk o ma. Master Dignam on his left turned as he turned. That’s me in mourning. Whe is it? May the twentysecond. Sure, the blooming thing is all over. He turned t the right and on his right Master Dignam turned, his cap awry, his colla sticking up. Buttoning it down, his chin lifted, he saw the image of Mari Kendall, charming soubrette, beside the two puckers. One of them mots that d be in the packets of fags Stoer smokes that his old fellow welted hell out o him for one time he found out. 
Master Dignam got his collar down and dawdled on. The best pucker going fo strength was Fitzsimons. One puck in the wind from that fellow would knock yo into the middle of next week, man. But the best pucker for science was Je Corbet before Fitzsimons knocked the stuffings out of him, dodging and all. 
In Grafton street Master Dignam saw a red flower in a toff’s mouth and a swel pair of kicks on him and he listening to what the drunk was telling him an grinning all the time. 
No Sandymount tram. 
Master Dignam walked along Nassau street, shifted the porksteaks to his othe hand. His collar sprang up again and he tugged it down. The blooming stud wa too small for the buttonhole of the shirt, blooming end to it. He me schoolboys with satchels. I’m not going tomorrow either, stay away till Monday. He met other schoolboys. Do they notice I’m in mourning? Uncle Barney said he’ get it into the paper tonight. Then they’ll all see it in the paper and read m name printed and pa’s name. 
His face got all grey instead of being red like it was and there was a fl walking over it up to his eye. The scrunch that was when they were screwing th screws into the coffin: and the bumps when they were bringing it downstairs. 
Pa was inside it and ma crying in the parlour and uncle Barney telling the me how to get it round the bend. A big coffin it was, and high and heavylooking. How was that? The last night pa was boosed he was standing on the landing ther bawling out for his boots to go out to Tunney’s for to boose more and he looke butty and short in his shirt. Never see him again. Death, that is. Pa is dead. My father is dead. He told me to be a good son to ma. I couldn’t hear the othe things he said but I saw his tongue and his teeth trying to say it better. Poo pa. That was Mr Dignam, my father. I hope he’s in purgatory now because he wen to confession to Father Conroy on Saturday night. 
*    *    * 
William Humble, earl of Dudley, and lady Dudley, accompanied b lieutenantcolonel Heseltine, drove out after luncheon from the viceregal lodge. In the following carriage were the honourable Mrs Paget, Miss de Courcy and th honourable Gerald Ward A. D. C. in attendance. 
The cavalcade passed out by the lower gate of Phoenix park saluted b obsequious policemen and proceeded past Kingsbridge along the northern quays. The viceroy was most cordially greeted on his way through the metropolis. A Bloody bridge Mr Thomas Kernan beyond the river greeted him vainly from afar. Between Queen’s and Whitworth bridges lord Dudley’s viceregal carriages passe and were unsaluted by Mr Dudley White, B. L., M. A., who stood on Arran qua outside Mrs M. E. White’s, the pawnbroker’s, at the corner of Arran street wes stroking his nose with his forefinger, undecided whether he should arrive a Phibsborough more quickly by a triple change of tram or by hailing a car or o foot through Smithfield, Constitution hill and Broadstone terminus. In th porch of Four Courts Richie Goulding with the costbag of Goulding, Collis an Ward saw him with surprise. Past Richmond bridge at the doorstep of the offic of Reuben J Dodd, solicitor, agent for the Patriotic Insurance Company, a elderly female about to enter changed her plan and retracing her steps b King’s windows smiled credulously on the representative of His Majesty. Fro its sluice in Wood quay wall under Tom Devan’s office Poddle river hung out i fealty a tongue of liquid sewage. Above the crossblind of the Ormond hotel, gold by bronze, Miss Kennedy’s head by Miss Douce’s head watched and admired. On Ormond quay Mr Simon Dedalus, steering his way from the greenhouse for th subsheriff’s office, stood still in midstreet and brought his hat low. Hi Excellency graciously returned Mr Dedalus’ greeting. From Cahill’s corner th reverend Hugh C. Love, M. A., made obeisance unperceived, mindful of lord deputies whose hands benignant had held of yore rich advowsons. On Gratta bridge Lenehan and M’Coy, taking leave of each other, watched the carriages g by. Passing by Roger Greene’s office and Dollard’s big red printinghouse Gert MacDowell, carrying the Catesby’s cork lino letters for her father who was lai up, knew by the style it was the lord and lady lieutenant but she couldn’t se what Her Excellency had on because the tram and Spring’s big yellow furnitur van had to stop in front of her on account of its being the lord lieutenant. Beyond Lundy Foot’s from the shaded door of Kavanagh’s winerooms John Wys Nolan smiled with unseen coldness towards the lord lieutenantgeneral an general governor of Ireland. The Right Honourable William Humble, earl o Dudley, G. C. V. O., passed Micky Anderson’s all times ticking watches an Henry and James’s wax smartsuited freshcheeked models, the gentleman Henry, dernier cri James. Over against Dame gate Tom Rochford and Nosey Flyn watched the approach of the cavalcade. Tom Rochford, seeing the eyes of lad Dudley fixed on him, took his thumbs quickly out of the pockets of his clare waistcoat and doffed his cap to her. A charming soubrette, great Mari Kendall, with dauby cheeks and lifted skirt smiled daubily from her poster upo William Humble, earl of Dudley, and upon lieutenantcolonel H. G. Heseltine, an also upon the honourable Gerald Ward A. D. C. From the window of the D. B. C. Buck Mulligan gaily, and Haines gravely, gazed down on the viceregal equipag over the shoulders of eager guests, whose mass of forms darkened the chessboar whereon John Howard Parnell looked intently. In Fownes’s street Dilly Dedalus, straining her sight upward from Chardenal’s first French primer, saw sunshade spanned and wheelspokes spinning in the glare. John Henry Menton, filling th doorway of Commercial Buildings, stared from winebig oyster eyes, holding a fa gold hunter watch not looked at in his fat left hand not feeling it. Where th foreleg of King Billy’s horse pawed the air Mrs Breen plucked her hastenin husband back from under the hoofs of the outriders. She shouted in his ear th tidings. Understanding, he shifted his tomes to his left breast and saluted th second carriage. The honourable Gerald Ward A. D. C., agreeably surprised, mad haste to reply. At Ponsonby’s corner a jaded white flagon H. halted and fou tallhatted white flagons halted behind him, E. L. Y.’S, while outriders prance past and carriages. Opposite Pigott’s music warerooms Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, gaily apparelled, gravely walked, outpassed by  viceroy and unobserved. By the provost’s wall came jauntily Blazes Boylan, stepping in tan shoes and socks with skyblue clocks to the refrain of M girl’s a Yorkshire girl. 
Blazes Boylan presented to the leaders’ skyblue frontlets and high action  skyblue tie, a widebrimmed straw hat at a rakish angle and a suit of indig serge. His hands in his jacket pockets forgot to salute but he offered to th three ladies the bold admiration of his eyes and the red flower between hi lips. As they drove along Nassau street His Excellency drew the attention o his bowing consort to the programme of music which was being discoursed i College park. Unseen brazen highland laddies blared and drumthumped after th cortège: 
But though she’s a factory las And wears no fancy clothes. Baraabum. Yet I’ve a sort of  Yorkshire relish fo My little Yorkshire rose. Baraabum. 
Thither of the wall the quartermile flat handicappers, M. C. Green, H. Shrift, T. M. Patey, C. Scaife, J. B. Jeffs, G. N. Morphy, F. Stevenson, C. Adderly an W. C. Huggard, started in pursuit. Striding past Finn’s hotel Cashel Boyl O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell stared through a fierce eyeglass acros the carriages at the head of Mr M. E. Solomons in the window of th Austro-Hungarian viceconsulate. Deep in Leinster street by Trinity’s postern  loyal king’s man, Hornblower, touched his tallyho cap. As the glossy horse pranced by Merrion square Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam, waiting, saw salute being given to the gent with the topper and raised also his new black cap wit fingers greased by porksteak paper. His collar too sprang up. The viceroy, o his way to inaugurate the Mirus bazaar in aid of funds for Mercer’s hospital, drove with his following towards Lower Mount street. He passed a blin stripling opposite Broadbent’s. In Lower Mount street a pedestrian in a brow macintosh, eating dry bread, passed swiftly and unscathed across the viceroy’ path. At the Royal Canal bridge, from his hoarding, Mr Eugene Stratton, hi blub lips agrin, bade all comers welcome to Pembroke township. At Haddingto road corner two sanded women halted themselves, an umbrella and a bag in whic eleven cockles rolled to view with wonder the lord mayor and lady mayores without his golden chain. On Northumberland and Lansdowne roads His Excellenc acknowledged punctually salutes from rare male walkers, the salute of two smal schoolboys at the garden gate of the house said to have been admired by th late queen when visiting the Irish capital with her husband, the princ consort, in 1849 and the salute of Almidano Artifoni’s sturdy trouser swallowed by a closing door. 
